





Home - William B. Hanson Center for Space Sciences | The University of Texas at Dallas
















































 

 





 
              William B. Hanson Center for Space Sciences               



Search

 

MENU





Home
Research
People
History
 












  

Home
Research
People
History
 


















The William B. Hanson Center for Space Sciences at The University of Texas at Dallas conducts a vigorous research program in Space Plasma Physics. Our goal is to advance our understanding of the evolution of Solar System bodies and their interaction with the Sun.






Our research includes:

the design, construction, and flight of space plasma sensors for space-borne experiments.the use of remote sensing and autonomous aerial vehicles to investigate Earth’s surface properties.the development and use of radio remote sensing instruments and techniques for studies of the upper atmosphere. the development of software and analysis tools for data interpretation.the advancement of numerical models of the solar terrestrial environment.
The Center for Space Sciences (CSS) is composed of faculty, researchers, and graduate students affiliated with the University’s Department of Physics. The Center also provides challenging research projects for students with the opportunity to work with internationally renowned scientists.
Below are some of our missions and research posters.


Missions

CINDI is an investigation to study the dynamics of the equatorial ionosphere, which is influenced by the collisions between the charged and neutral gases in the upper
atmosphere. The NASA-sponsored investigation carried ion and neutral sensors designed and built at UT Dallas as part of a more extensive payload for the Communications
Navigation Outage Forecast System (C/NOFS). The C/NOFS satellite was launched from a Pegasus vehicle in April 2008 and continued to provide data until the satellite reentered
the atmosphere in 2015. The operation of the payload was supported by the US Air Force and provided an unprecedented view of the formation and evolution of
ionospheric structures that are detrimental to space-based communication and navigation systems.
Through collaboration with and funding by the US Air Force,
UTD developed and provided the COSMIC-2 Ion Velocity
Meter instruments that measure properties of the local
plasma, including plasma motion, temperature, density
and composition. The COSMIC-2 constellation provides an
unprecedented low-latitude global dataset of these plasma
properties, enabling new investigations of the physics of this
region of space.
The Defense Meteorological Satellite Program (DMSP) is a US Department of Defense spacecraft constellation that provides Earth weather and environmental data. DMSP
instruments provide information in the visual and infrared spectra about the motion and characteristics of Earth’s clouds, land, ice and water. The DMSP satellites have included
plasma sensors provided by UT Dallas since the eighth satellite (DMSP-F8) was launched in 1987. The UT Dallas plasma program has spanned more than three decades with
operational instruments on 12 DMSP spacecrafts, three of which are still operational in 2022.
The SPORT mission seeks to understand the conditions under which ionospheric variability develops that lead to scintillation and disruption of communications signals
carried through the upper atmosphere. To investigate these conditions, SPORT developed a CubeSat observatory instrumented with special sensors provided by The
University of Texas at Dallas, NASA Goddard Space Flight Center, Utah State University and the Aerospace Corporation. SPORT is a unique partnership between NASA’s
Marshall Space Flight Center which leads the project, the Instituto Tecnológico de Aeronáutica (ITA) which developed, built and integrated the satellite, and Instituto Nacional
de Pesquisas Espaciais (INPE) which provides operations, communications and data processing support for the mission.
The SORTIE mIVM is the first CubeSat compatible sensor developed
and provided by the UTD Center for Space Sciences.
ROCSAT-1, later renamed FORMOSAT-1, was the first satellite mission carried out by Taiwan’s National Space Organization (NSPO). Taiwan partnered with several US
organizations to develop the capability to produce and operate high-reliability satellite systems. Through a collaboration with TRW (later Northrop Grumman), UTD provided
the Ionospheric Plasma and Electrodynamics Instrument (IPIE) and partnered with NSPO to develop and carry out the mission science investigation. ROCSAT-1 operated
successfully on-orbit from 1999 to 2004, starting at an altitude of 600 km and an orbit inclination of 35°.
The Ionospheric Connection Explorer (ICON) is a NASA Small Explorer mission lead by Dr. Thomas Immel at The University of California, Berkeley. UTD is a mission science
partner, led by Dr. Rod Heelis and supported by Dr. Russell Stoneback and Dr. Yun-Ju Chen. With support from the UTD Space Sciences engineering staff, UTD provided the
ICON Ion Velocity Meter payloads.
Mission Gallery
Research

Ground-based radar systems can be used to measure height profiles of ionospheric parameters above a certain location with high temporal resolution.
It is well-recognized that small, low-cost sensors can help advance our understanding of ionospheric
behavior and impact on radio systems such as those used for communication and navigation.
Physics-based models of the ionosphere, as well as analytical techniques, are used to assess
the validity of our current physical description of the ionosphere. These tools can be combined
with measurements from science instruments to explain ionospheric trends and behavior.
















 

 
 























