



Directed Pre-Health Post-Bacc Studies - The University of Texas at Dallas






























Jump to content
Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Provost's Homepage 
CourseBook


my doxdox Search










Health Professions Advising Center
Directed Pre-Health Post-Bacc Studies

Certificate in Biomedical Sciences (CBioMed)

The Certificate in Biomedical Sciences program application for entry semesters of Summer and Fall 2023 is now open. The application process includes two parts:

Completion of the ApplyTexas application
Completion of the Supplemental Application

The deadline to receive both the ApplyTexas and supplemental application is Monday, February 13th, 2023 at 5:00pm (CT).

The Certificate in Biomedical Sciences (CBioMed) program accepts approximately 30 students per academic year. The program is designed to provide intensive preparation for students intending to apply for admission to dental, medical or podiatry schools.
Please review the Information and Guidelines booklet, then go to ApplyTexas and select the following:

Create a new four-year college/university admissions application
Institution: University of Texas at Dallas – (Richardson)
Application Type: US Transfer
Semester: Fall 2022
First Choice School: School of Natural Science & Mathematics
First Choice Major: Undergraduate Certificate in Biomedical Sciences

Once a prospective student has applied to UT Dallas, s/he must complete the certificate program supplemental application. While MCAT and/or DAT scores are not required for admission to the program, please make note of previous test scores in the supplemental application if available. Letters of recommendation are not required.


Forward all official transcripts to:
      The University of Texas at Dallas
      Admission and Enrollment
      800 W. Campbell Rd.
      Richardson, TX 75080
    

Instructions for sending electronic transcripts can be found here.
Please direct any questions regarding the CBioMed program to Shirley Anderson.


Frequently Asked Questions


What information do you need to complete my application?


We require the completion of your ApplyTexas application and supplemental application. The admissions office will also require documents including your transcripts from every college and university you have attended. Please review their requirements here.




I have questions regarding the ApplyTexas application, who do I ask?


Please refer all ApplyTexas-related questions to the admissions office.




Where do I send my official transcripts to?


Transcripts should not be sent to the HPAC office. Please send all transcripts to the admissions office.




I’ve taken the MCAT/GRE/DAT, etc. Should I forward my scores to you?


We do not require standardized test scores as part of the review process, see last section of the supplemental application for more information on what to share.




I will not complete my bachelor’s degree until after the Summer 2021 term. Can I still apply for your program to begin in the fall?


Yes, however, you may be refrained from registering for courses until after your final transcript has been received.




Are letters of recommendation required?


They are not. Please do not request to have any letters of recommendation sent to the program.




When will I hear back regarding my application status?


You will receive an confirmation of receipt of your supplemental application in Qualtrics after submitting. In addition, please allow 4-6 weeks after receipt of all required documents for a decision on your application.






Second Degree in Biological Sciences
Students requiring significant coursework in the sciences, particularly in biological sciences, may want to explore applying for second degree status. More information about bachelor’s degrees in biology can found at http://www.utdallas.edu/academics/


Non-Degree
This option could serve those who have an undergraduate degree and desire only a few classes to complete requisites prior to applying for entry to a health professions program. Non-degree prospective students should apply for admission to UT Dallas. Accepted students register for a class(es) with advisors in the UT Dallas school housing that class(es). For example, if a student would like to register for Genetics, he or she would see an advisor in the School of Natural Sciences and Mathematics.
Non-degree students seeking to take undergraduate classes to meet requisites for health professions schools should register as Non-Degree Undergraduate. Not all classes may be available, and non-degree students register after degree seeking students.
Non-degree students are welcome to consult an advisor in the Health Professions Advising Center (HPAC) to talk about their plans to apply to health professions schools.













Undergraduate Education

Office of Undergraduate Education

Contact Us

Undergraduate Educationat UT Dallas

Schools of Study
Appealing Academic Policy
Core Curriculum
Placement Exams

UT Dallas Math Placement
ALEKS Math Assessment Exam


Undergraduate Advising

Undergraduate Advising Overview
Undergraduate Minors Guide
Student Outreach and Academic Retention (SOAR)
Exploratory Advising
Undergraduate Advisors

Undergraduate Research Experience

The Exley Undergraduate Research Journal
Bruce Gnade Undergraduate Student Travel Award
Patti Henry Pinch Scholarship
Undergraduate Research Scholar Awards
Student Research Resources

Student Research Resources Home
Undergraduate Research Events
Current Undergraduate Researchers
Prospective Undergraduate Researchers
Provost's Award for Faculty Excellence

UTDiscovery Award

Student Success Programs

Comet Cupboard
Comet Cents

Comet Cents Overview
CashCourse
Comet Cents Events
Financial Resources
Team Members

First Year Leaders
Freshman Mentor Program

Freshman Mentor Program Overview
How to Get an FMP Mentor
How to Become an FMP Mentor
FMP Student Leadership Team

Transfer Mentor Program

Transfer Mentor Program Overview
How To Get A Mentor
How To Become A Mentor
Student Leadership Team

Pre-Professional Advising

Health Professions Advising Center

HPAC Home
HPAC Forms & Handouts
HPAC FAQ
HPAC Contact
Prospective Pre-Health Students

Pre-Health Results and Statistics
Post-Bacc Studies

Current Pre-Health Students

Pre-Health Experience
Pre-Health Enrichment Programs
Pre-Health Student Organizations
Applying to Professional Schools
Joint Admission Medical Program
TEMRAP


Pre-Law Advising Center

Pre-Law Advising Center Home
Pre-Law Contact
Pre-Law Upcoming Events
Past Event Videos
Advocacy Teams
Project on Innocence Seminar
Law School Acceptances
Student Preparation Resources

Academic Preparation
Credit/No Credit Options and Law School
Personal Preparation
Application Process
Additional Resources
Application Timeline
Application Check List



Graduation Help Desk
First Generation Students
Undergraduate Success Scholars
VolunTIER
Cultural Scholars Program
Student Success Center

Awards

Special Awards

Outstanding Undergraduate Student Award
Provost's Award for Faculty Excellence in Undergraduate Research Mentoring

Undergraduate Advisor of the Year Award

Related Sites

Hobson Wildenthal Honors College
McDermott Scholars
CourseBook
StudentBook
Current Undergraduate Catalog
UTD Chess
Freshman Year Experience
Academic Excellence Scholarships

Transfer Credit

AP Credit
CLEP Credit
IB Credit

Texas Success Initiative (TSI)

About the Texas Success Initiative
TSI Exemptions
UT Dallas Developmental Education







Office of the ProvostUT Dallas AccreditationSACSCOC






(null clip target)








