



The Eugene McDermott Scholars Program - The University of Texas at Dallas






























Jump to content
Jump to navigation
Jump to search
UT Dallas McDermott Scholars Home







UT Dallas McDermott Scholars
The Eugene McDermott Scholars Program


3/17/2023: Status notifications will be sent to all applicants at their UT Dallas email address by noon on Saturday, 3/18/2023.
3/13/2023: Please visit our apply page for information on the selection process timeline.
3/10/2023: The deadline to submit a completed application with two recommendations to the McDermott Scholars Program has passed. We regret that we cannot accept late submissions.
2/24/2023: The deadline for the McDermott Application has been set for Friday, March 10, 2023, at 10:59:59 am CDT. Be sure that your application and two recommendations are submitted in advance of the deadline as the system will stop accepting submissions at that time.
1/13/2023: The deadline for the McDermott application will be set soon; check back for additional updates. We suggest working on your application and recommendations while the eligibility notification process continues.
1/3/2023: Get your questions answered at one of our informational Zoom sessions.
11/16/2022: The application for the fall 2023 class of McDermott Scholars is now open! Go to the Apply page for information on eligibility as well as the link to the application and instructions.


We are pleased to be recruiting outstanding high school senior candidates for a challenging and fulfilling college experience as 2023 McDermott Scholars. McDermott Scholarships are awarded to students with records of outstanding academic achievement* and outstanding leadership and service who are committed to participating in the extracurricular, leadership, and service dimensions of the McDermott Scholars Program.
The Award

Up to 20 McDermott Scholarships will be awarded each year
The Scholarship is awarded for four years while the Scholar earns a UT Dallas bachelor’s degree

    The Scholarship provides:
    
Required tuition and mandatory fees
Stipends for housing and living (in their first year at UT Dallas, Scholars live in Honors Housing in the campus residence halls and hold a meal plan)

        Development resources, including:
        
Leadership training through seminars and cohort experiences
Funding for study abroad and other engagement
Program staff


Membership in the University’s Hobson Wildenthal Honors College and its Collegium V academic honors program



*Those selected as Scholars will be in the top academic tenth of the university's incoming first-year students.












The Eugene McDermott Scholars Program


About
Apply
Zoom Q&A Sessions
FAQ
History

Meet the McDermott Scholars

2019 Scholars
2020 Scholars
2022 Scholars

McDermott Scholar Media

McDermott on Facebook

Additional McDermott Information

Contact Information
Program Staff
McDermott Scholars Program Alumni Association
Donate to McDermott













(null clip target)








