












Back to School: A UTD Guide for Start of Fall Semester 2022 - News Center | The University of Texas at Dallas





















































 

 


 


Skip to content









 



 







Info For
Students
Faculty & Staff
Alumni
Family & Visitors
DFW Community
 

Resources
Galaxy Login
eLearning
CourseBook
Email
Map
Events
Academic Calendar
News
Directory
Library
EZPay
Help Desk
Human Resources
Accessibility
 

											Make a Gift										


Search











 








About Us
Academics
Admissions
Costs, Scholarships & Aid
Campus Life
Research
 

Info For
Students
Faculty & Staff
Alumni
Family & Visitors
DFW Community
 

Resources
Galaxy Login
eLearning
CourseBook
Email
Map
Events
Academic Calendar
News
Directory
Library
EZPay
Help Desk
Human Resources
Accessibility
 

								Make a Gift							
















About Us
Academics
Admissions
Costs, Scholarships & Aid
Campus Life
Research
 

















News Center  >  Campus & Community

Back to School: A UTD Guide for Start of Fall Semester 2022


By Office of Media Relations | Aug. 17, 2022 
SHARE: 
















The fall semester will begin Monday, Aug. 22, and the last day of classes will be Thursday, Dec. 8, at UT Dallas.
The University of Texas at Dallas is getting ready for the fall semester, which begins Aug. 22. The following information and resources will help prepare Comets for the new academic year, which will again feature in-person, online and hybrid classes.
“The continuous campus transformation and enhanced services highlight the evolution of the UT Dallas experience for fall of 2022,” said Dr. Calvin D. Jamison, vice president for facilities and economic development. “The entire campus team welcomes our faculty, staff and students. Additionally, with 8,200 students living on or adjacent to campus, the steady construction of the DART Silver Line to the north and the groundbreaking construction of the Athenaeum to the south, it bodes well for the future of the entire campus community.”
Campus Health
UT Dallas continues to monitor public health conditions closely and strongly encourages Comets to help prevent the spread of COVID-19 and monkeypox. COVID-19 vaccines are available to students by appointment only through the Student Health Center. Students can also receive COVID-19 tests from the center after they have completed an evaluation by a health care provider. Masks are required at the health center and health center events on campus. Information and guidance about monkeypox can be found on the Community Health website.
Helpful Links

Community Health
Tips for Coping with COVID-19 Stress
Student Health Center
Student Counseling Center
Center for Students in Recovery
Student Wellness 
Employee Wellness
University Emergency Medical Response

Campus Updates


The Texas Instruments Biomedical Engineering and Sciences Building has begun to take shape in Dallas.

Facilities: Work has begun on the first phase of the Edith and Peter O’Donnell Jr. Athenaeum near the Naveen Jindal School of Management building. Completion of the first phase is anticipated for spring 2024. Construction continues on the UTD station on the new Dallas Area Rapid Transit Silver Line near Northside. It is planned to open by late 2024. As part of its reorganization and expansion, the Office of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion has moved into a new suite on the second floor of the Administration Building.  A new Passport Acceptance Facility will have its grand opening Sept. 9 in the Student Services Building. The facility, part of the International Center, will be open to all U.S. citizens planning international travel. Appointments can be made on the website. The coffee shop and the technology store at the Visitor Center and University Bookstore have been integrated into the bookstore. In Dallas, work is progressing on the Texas Instruments Biomedical Engineering and Sciences Building, a joint facility for UTD and UT Southwestern Medical Center. The project is scheduled to be completed in 2023. For more information about campus construction, visit the Pardon Our Progress website.
Parking and transportation: A temporary 300-space parking lot will open this fall just south of Lot M West, which has been removed for the construction of the Athenaeum. Parking permits can be purchased online, and parking areas are outlined on this map. There are now 64 locations for parking bicycles next to an academic building or a UTD facility on campus. An additional 57 locations are near campus housing, and all bicycle repair stations have been replaced with new equipment. For help navigating campus, check out UTD’s interactive map. To learn more about the Comet Cruiser bus service, the Comet Cab campus shuttle service and other transportation options, visit the Parking and Transportation website.


Kalachandji’s Express

Dining: A few dining venues on campus are now open, and the rest will reopen when the fall semester begins. Kalachandji’s Express, which serves a variety of vegetarian and vegan options with Indian flavors, is the newest addition at the Student Union Food Court. Dining Hall West and the Student Union Chick-fil-A have been remodeled with fresh new looks. The Tradecraft Coffee and Tea Bar has expanded its location at the Naveen Jindal School of Management building. Late-night bakery Insomnia Cookies will open this fall at Northside. The Starship food delivery robots are back in full service, and diners can also place orders for pickup with the Boost mobile app. Hours and locations of all the venues can be found on the dining website.
Campus Safety

UTD Alert Sign-up
Police
Crime Prevention
Emergency Management
Emergency Preparedness
Inclement Weather Procedures
Reporting Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct
Student AccessAbility

Student Resources


UTD offers a robust variety of research opportunities for students.


Financial Aid
Student Emergency Financial Assistance Program
Housing
Undergraduate Education
Student Success Center
Student Policies and Standards of Conduct
Orbit: Keeping New Comets on Course
Freshman Mentor Program
Transfer Mentor Program
Transfer Student Services
Graduate Education
Graduate Student Assembly
International Center
International Students and Scholars Office
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
Living Our Values
Galerstein Gender Center
Multicultural Center
Intercultural Programs
Military and Veteran Center
Peer Advisors for Veteran Education
Graduation Help Desk
Career Center
Other Resources and Tools

Online Education


The Eugene McDermott Library features resources for in-person and distance learning.


Educational Technology Services
UTD eLearning
Getting Started with eLearning
Online Learning for Students
Online Learning for Faculty/Instructors
Accessibility Resources in Distance Education
Remote Work Resources
Microsoft Teams
Office 365 Training
Student Computer Checkout Availability
Distance Education Resources (Library)
eLearning Helpdesk
Office of Information Technology Help Desk

Faculty and Staff Resources

Human Resources
Employee Resource Groups
Living Our Values
UT System Policies
UT Dallas Policies
Compliance
Academic Senate
Staff Council
InterCom newsletter
Other Resources and Tools

Important Dates


Fall commencement ceremonies will begin Monday, Dec. 19.


Academic Calendar and Payment/Refund Calendar
Graduation Application Deadline

News and Events

UTD Today
News Center
UT Dallas Magazine
The Telescope Blog
Comet Calendar








Media Contact: The Office of Media Relations, UT Dallas, (972) 883-2155, newscenter@utdallas.edu.


Tagged:
A&H AHT ATEC/EMAC BBS COVID-19 ECS EPPS IS NSM SOM 




More  Study May Offer New Clues on Aging, Financial Trustworthiness
Virtual Exchange Program Extending UTD Educators’ Global Reach
UTD Ready To Get in the Spirit for 7th Annual Comets Giving Days
Comedian, Designer of UTD Mascot To Deliver Commencement Address
UTD Students’ Artistry Lights Up Dallas Skyline in Omni Display
 

Top Stories

UTD To Honor Newest Group of Endowed Chairs, Professors
Comedian, Designer of UTD Mascot To Deliver Commencement Address
UTD Students’ Artistry Lights Up Dallas Skyline in Omni Display
UTD Honors Alumni, Supporters at Star-Studded Awards Gala
Nobel Prize Winner Aziz Sancar Gives Award Replica to UT Dallas
Scientists Discover New Molecule That Kills Hard-to-Treat Cancers

 












 

 
 






 800 W. Campbell Road
Richardson, Texas 75080-3021
972-883-2111


COPYRIGHT INFORMATION © The University of Texas at Dallas
Questions or comments about this page?


STAY CONNECTED WITH UT DALLAS



facebook





twitter





youtube





linkedin





instagram





RESOURCESEmergency Preparedness
Forms
Campus Carry
Campus Police
Required Links
Tobacco-Free Campus
UT System
Texas Veterans Portal
Work at UT Dallas
Parking
Nondiscrimination & Title IX
Org. Chart
A-Z Index
Student Achievements
HEERF Reporting
Counseling/Mental Health
Safety
Hazing Prevention
Public Course and Syllabus Information
Privacy Policy
Land Acknowledgement




















