





Financial Aid - Office of Financial Aid | The University of Texas at Dallas
























































 

 





 
              Office of Financial Aid               



Search

 

MENU





Aid Programs
Scholarships
Receiving Aid
Maintaining Aid
Estimated Costs
Resources
Forms
 












  

Aid Programs
Scholarships
Receiving Aid
Maintaining Aid
Estimated Costs
Resources
Forms
 
















Financial Aid


Deadlines
Contact
Check Your Status
Bursar 





Announcements & Updates





Spring 2023 Updates
Financial Aid Offers

Financial aid award offers for the 2022-2023 academic year are ongoing. Expected time from completed application to notification is approximately three (3) weeks.
Check your Orion Student Center Tasks tile to make sure we’re not asking for any additional information. Click on the “Check Your Status” bar above to see instructions on how to do this.

Accepting Financial Aid

Make sure you accept all the aid you wish to receive. See the “How to Accept Your Aid in Orion Student Center” section below for instructions.
Accepting Federal Direct Loans for the first time is a multi-step process. See details on the How to Accept Loans page.

Disbursements

Disbursement of spring financial aid is ongoing.
Financial aid will not appear on your Bursar bill until it has disbursed.
You can check if your financial aid has disbursed and if you have been issued a refund on the Bursar’s Office EZPay site.
You can determine your balance due by subtracting the amount of spring financial aid from your total balance due.
Questions regarding your balance due, payment options or the refund process, should be directed to the Bursar’s Office at bursar@utdallas.edu or 972-883-2612.
You can read more information abut disbursements and refunds on our Disbursements and Refunds page.

Reasons Why Your Aid Might Not Disburse

Your current enrollment status does not match the enrollment status we used to award your financial aid.

For example, if your award is based on full-time status but you are enrolled three-quarter-time, your aid will not disburse.
If the anticipated and actual enrollment statuses don’t match, submit the online Hours Adjustment Form in the General section of our Forms page.


You are not meeting the financial aid Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) requirements.

Your SAP status was determined at the end of your last term enrolled at UT Dallas. Students placed on financial aid suspension are notified via their UTD email.


You have an outstanding financial aid To Do List item in Orion.

Required financial aid documents will appear in your To Do List in Orion. The Office of Financial Aid also sends To Do List reminders to your UTD email.










Common Services & Information



How to Accept Your Aid in Orion Student Center

Instructions for checking your financial aid status and accepting aid
Instructions for viewing and accepting federal student loans 

Navigation to viewing or accepting your aid:


Complete your Financial Aid Application
The 2022-2023 FAFSA, used for fall 2022, spring 2023 and summer 2023, is available online at studentaid.gov.  If you are planning to attend school this academic year and have not yet submitted your 2022-2023 FAFSA, please do so as soon as possible.
The 2023-2024 FAFSA and TASFA, used for fall 2023, spring 2024 and summer 2024, are now available. You can access the FAFSA online at studentaid.gov.  You can access the TASFA on our Forms page. To determine which form you should complete, visit our Eligibility page or the College for All Texans website.
Visit our Deadlines page for information on our priority deadlines.

How to Submit Documents
To submit documents we’ve requested on the To Do list in your Student Center Tasks tile, use the Financial Aid Uploader tool at the top of our Forms page.
All other documents can be submitted to our office using one of the following methods:

Email: financial-aid@utdallas.edu – To protect your personal information, please use your UT Dallas email when submitting documents
Fax: 972-883-6803
In-person drop-off: Student Services Building, first floor Drop Box


Enrollment Status
For financial aid purposes, your enrollment status (e.g. half-time, three quarters-time, full-time, etc.) is determined based upon the number of financial aid-eligible semester credit hours in which you enroll, as well as your academic level.
Read more about enrollment status.

Changes to Your Family’s Financial Situation
The UT Dallas Office of Financial Aid recognizes the financial impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and the burden it has placed on many college students and their families. If you or your parents have experienced a significant financial change, you may be eligible for a reconsideration of the financial aid offered to you. Check out our Special Circumstances video for more information.

Taking Classes at Another School
Are you registered for classes at another school at the same time you are attending UT Dallas?

If you are eligible for the Federal Pell Grant program, you can receive this grant at only one school at a time.
You must notify us if you are receiving federal or state grants or loans from another school while attending UT Dallas.
UT Dallas will process financial aid for your registered UT Dallas classes. We do not process financial aid for classes taken at other schools.
For academic requirements regarding the ability to transfer off-campus coursework, see your academic advisor.




FAFSA School Code
009741

Mailing Address
The University of Texas at DallasFinancial Aid800 W Campbell Rd ROC22Richardson, TX 75080-3021

Contact Us
financial-aid@utdallas.edu972-883-2941 (office)972-883-6803 (fax)
Monday – Thursday9 a.m. – 5 p.m.
Friday10 a.m. – 5 p.m.
See other ways to reach us.

What Is Financial Aid?



















 

 
 










Financial Aid

Deadlines
Forms
Code of Conduct
FATV



Aid Programs

Grants
Loans
Waivers
Work Study



Topics

Estimated Costs
Apply
Verification
FAQ






Veterans

Hazlewood
Federal Benefits
Veteran Forms
VA FAQ



Scholarships

Listing
Transfer Students
Academic Excellence
McDermott Scholars



Resources

Parents
Consumer Info
Rights and Responsibilities
HEERF Reporting





 















