




Dean of Students - The University of Texas at Dallas














Dean of Students











DOS Home
Initiatives
Policies
Contact Us


















Dean of Students Office
Welcome! The Dean of Students Office is here to help you take full advantage of the many resources available to you at UT Dallas. Our mission is to offer services and facilitate experiences that provide you with a sense of place and belonging
                    while preparing you to be responsible, engaged citizens in a rapidly changing global environment. We seek to create a campus culture that welcomes and embraces the diverse student population we serve while also challenging you to fully
                    develop your innate potential as a human being.
Whether you are a new or continuing student, the Dean of Students office is the place to find the many campus resources and services designed to enhance your university experience.

                    In the Dean of Students Office, we support the statements issued by UT Dallas President,
                        Dr. Richard Benson, and our Vice President for Student Affairs,
                        Dr. Gene Fitch, Jr. We acknowledge our Black students, faculty, staff and community. We recognize the deep pain, anguish and trauma you are carrying right now due to senseless losses of life. We are committed to doing better.
                    We are committed to shaping our "new normal" in a way that attends to issues of equity, racism and bias. May this period of upheaval and crisis result in a permanent change that creates equality and peace grounded in diversity and
                    justice.
                

                    In realizing there are cumulative effects to these traumas, we encourage you to consider utilizing the following UT Dallas resources as needed.
                

Student Counseling Center 
Gallerstein Gender Center  
Student Health Center 
Multicultural Center 
Employee Assistance Program  for Faculty and Staff
                
Student Affairs Policies
Visit the Policies tab to learn more about operating procedures, including the student code of conduct, the Behavioral Assessment Intervention Team (BAIT), student grievance procedures, or the Regents'
                    Rules and Regulations.




COVID-19 Updates

Student Safety
                                Guide:COVID-19 Information




Students in Distress
If you are experiencing a personal crisis — You may visit the Student Counseling Center during business hours to meet with a counselor. For crises after business hours                    — Call 972-UTD-TALK (972-883-8255).
Student Emergency Financial Assistance

                    The Vice President for Student Affairs and the Dean of Students established a Student Emergency Financial
                        Assistance fund to help students with unanticipated expenses. If you are a currently enrolled UT Dallas student in need of help, please review details about the plan and learn how to apply.
                


Higher Education Act
UT Dallas encourages students to participate in federal, state and local elections. Find out more information about the Higher Education Act and how you can register to
                        vote.





© The University of Texas at Dallas
Student Affairs
Dean of Students
















  





