




UT Dallas' Mental Health Services for Students













Skip to Main Content.
Skip to Main Navigation.
Skip to Main Footer.





Student Counseling Center











SCC Home
Our Services
Resources
Internship/Practicum
Contact Us











I Need to Talk to Someone Now


Appointments


Helping a Friend in Distress







Student Counseling Center (SCC) is dedicated to serving the MENTAL HEALTH needs of our UTD students

      We want to support you in this time of stress and anxiety that can be caused by the evolving situation with COVID-19. 
       
Student Counseling Center’s Commitment to Anti-Racism
SCC Services Survey

      If you are experiencing a life-threatening emergency, please call 911.
    

      If you are in crisis and need to speak to a mental health professional, call UTD TALK (972)-883-8255.
    
Comet Chat
		We offer 15-minute consultations with SCC mental health professionals. Please click HERE to learn more about Comet Chat.   
    
      New/Returning Clients
    
Please navigate to the "Appointments" tab for instruction on scheduling an Initial Consultation.

If you are currently not in the state of Texas and wanting mental health support, please utilize our new My Student Support Program (My SSP)! 


      Current SCC Psychiatry Clients
    

    	If you would like to schedule a psychiatric follow up appointment, have medication concerns/questions, or need refills on current prescriptions, please email psychiatry directly at  [email protected].

How to prepare for a virtual session

Create a Microsoft Teams account utilizing your UTD netid and password 
Ensure you have a working computer/phone and wi-fi (if needed)
 Find a private and quiet space where you feel comfortable talking 
Be available and ready to engage in session at your scheduled day/time 
Don't have a private space? Let us know and we can set you up in our in-office virtual therapy suite

Additional resources

UTD Resources
Emotional Wellness & COVID-19

Latest COVID-19 Updates 

	Texas Health and Human Services has launched a 24/7 statewide mental health support line to help Texans experiencing anxiety, stress or emotional challenges due to the COVID-19 pandemic.This new resource offers COVID-19-related mental health support for all Texans. People can call the Statewide COVID-19 Mental Health Support Line 24 hours a day, 7 days a week toll-free at 833-986-1919.
Please follow our social media with updates on future online workshops and updated resources.
Helpful Links


Services we offer 
Self-Help Tools
Faculty and Staff: Assist a Troubled Student
Resources for Parents
Center for Students in Recovery
Statement of Support for Our Students Related to Recent Events & Public Commentary Promoting Hatred and Violence
Diversity Statement
Self Evaluator - Mental Health ScreeningFrequently Asked Questions (FAQ)
Tell us how we are doing 






UT Dallas Student Counseling Center

Follow us on Social Media
 
Services We Are Unable to Provide 

Long-term therapy/treatment
Disability & ADD/ADHD assessments
Court mandated therapy
Welfare checks
Letters for emotional support animals 

Mental Health Facilities

Dallas County
North Texas Behavioral Health Authority (NTBHA)
9441 LBJ Frwy, Suite 350
Dallas, TX 75243
Crisis Phone: 866-260-8000 
Main Phone: 1-877-653-6363 
Counties Served: Dallas, Ellis, Hunt, Kaufman, Navarro, Rockwall


Collin County
LifePath Systems
1515 Heritage Drive
McKinney, TX 75069
Crisis Phone: 1-877-422-5939  
Main Phone: 1-877-422-5939  
Counties Served: Collin






© The University of Texas at Dallas
Student Affairs
Dean of Students
Student Counseling Center













