






Freshman Year Experience - Freshman Year Experience | The University of Texas at Dallas


































 








Skip to Content
Skip to Navigation
Skip to Footer








Freshman Year Experience





Search for:



 




Freshman Year Experience








Programs

Programs Overview
Comet Camp 2022


Events
Cometline To Success
Freshman Orientation

Orientation Overview
Freshman Orientation 2023
Freshman Orientation FAQ
Be An Orientation Leader
Orientation Executive Team


Comet Families
GPA Calculator
 


Search for:



 









Getting Started
Live on Campus
Get Involved
Plan for Success

There’s nothing quite like your first year of college. A new world awaits, and UT Dallas wants to help you make the most of the experience.
Getting Started




Freshman Orientation
Your journey begins with Freshman Orientation, a two-day introduction to campus, culminating with class registration.





Comet Camp
A three-day summer camp that offers the opportunity to have fun, make friends and jumpstart your college life at UT Dallas.






Photos of UT Dallas in the midst of a pandemic and adjusting to the needs of the staff, faculty and students. Meghan Swanson
Success Series
Get advice from the experts: faculty, staff and current students who have suggestions for making the most of your time in college.





Campus Maps
Navigate your way around UT Dallas.

Campus map
Campus room locator
Parking map (pdf, 1.4MB)
Self-guided tour
Campus construction updates






Stay Connected
Follow us on social media for the latest news, events and activities.

Class of 2024 on Facebook
Temoc on Facebook, Instagram and Twitter
UT Dallas on Facebook




Live on Campus




University Housing
Living on campus is a great way to transition to college, offering you freedom, responsibility and a fun environment with opportunities to make new friends.





Living Learning Communities
A special living arrangement for students who wish to study and socialize with others who share common academic goals and interests.



Get Involved




Programs
Studies show that students involved in campus life activities have a more productive, enjoyable college experience.





Events
Large or small, tradition or new event, there’s plenty going on at UT Dallas.



Plan for Success




Cometline to Success
Discover a world of opportunities and resources available during your freshman year.




Students around campus socially distancing and wearing masks while studying or walking to class.
GPA Calculator
Fill in your estimated letter grades and credit hours to calculate your average.

















The University of Texas at Dallas
Freshman Year Experience






















