



Sociology - UT Dallas 2013 Undergraduate Catalog - The University of Texas at Dallas































Jump to content
Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Catalog Home 
Undergraduate Catalogs 


2022 Undergraduate Catalog2021 Undergraduate Catalog2020 Undergraduate Catalog2019 Undergraduate Catalog2018 Undergraduate Catalog2017 Undergraduate Catalog2016 Undergraduate Catalog


 
Graduate Catalogs 


2022 Graduate Catalog2021 Graduate Catalog2020 Graduate Catalog2019 Graduate Catalog2018 Graduate Catalog2017 Graduate Catalog2016 Graduate Catalog









UT Dallas 2013 Undergraduate Catalog
School of Economic, Political and Policy Sciences
Sociology (BA)
Sociology offers a scientific approach to examining social groups, human interactions and social change. Sociologists are interested in a wide range of topics and issues related to social life. Some examples of sociological questions include: Why do some groups have more resources and power than others in society and what explains these inequalities? What factors influence marriage and divorce rates? How do families, schools, churches, and corporations affect social control? What are the functions of welfare programs? How do cities grow and transform to reflect changing technologies and population trends? How does law interact with society and social institutions? What are the causes and consequences of crime and deviant behavior?
The mission of the BA in Sociology is to provide undergraduate students (both majors and non-majors) with broad knowledge of the theoretical concepts, empirical research findings, and methodological approaches of the discipline of sociology, with an emphasis on theory and research related to social inequality. As part of this program, sociology majors should gain mastery of these concepts, findings, and approaches central to sociology, as well as develop basic skills in empirical analysis and professional communication.
At UT Dallas, sociology majors are encouraged to go beyond scholarly study to explore ways that sociology can be utilized in corporations, government agencies, or voluntary organizations. Sociology graduates of the university have pursued careers or graduate study in a variety of areas including policy research, social services, business, law, education, law enforcement, and other social sciences.
Bachelor of Arts in Sociology
Degree Requirements (120 hours)
I.Core Curriculum Requirements: 42 hours1
Communication (6 hours)
3 hours Communication (RHET 1302)
3 hours Communication Elective (SOC 3306)2
Social and Behavioral Sciences (15 hours)
6 semester credit hours Government (GOVT 2301 and GOVT 2302)
6 hours American History (HIST 1301 and HIST 1302)
3 hours Social and Behavioral Sciences Elective (SOC 1301)2
Humanities and Fine Arts (6 hours)
3 hours Fine Arts (ARTS 1301)
3 hours Humanities (HUMA 1301)
Mathematics and Quantitative Reasoning (6 hours)
3 hours Mathematics (at or above level of College Algebra, recommended: MATH 1306 or MATH 1314)
4 hours Quantitative Reasoning (EPPS 3405)2, 3
Science (9 hours including at least one course with a substantial laboratory component)
II. Major Requirements: 46 hours
Major Preparatory Courses (4 hours beyond Core Curriculum)
ECON 2301 Principles of Macroeconomics
or ECON 2302 Principles of Microeconomics
EPPS 3405 Introduction to Social Statistics with Lab2, 3
Major Core Courses (15 hours)
SOC 2319 Race, Gender, and Class
SOC 3303 Classical Social Theory
SOC 3325 Race, Ethnicity, and Community
or SOC 4369 Public Health and Society
SOC 3306 Research and Writing for Sociological Practice2
SOC 4302 Class, Status, and Power
One of the following:
SOC 3333 Religion in Society
SOC 3336 Culture Regions
SOC 4361 Law and Society
Major Related Courses (27 hours)
18 hours upper-division Sociology courses
9 hours Major and Related electives4
III. Elective Requirements: 32 hours
Electives (6 hours)
All students are required to take at least six hours of electives outside their major field of study. These must be either upper-division classes or lower-division classes that have prerequisites.
Free Electives (26 hours)
This requirement may be satisfied with lower- and upper-division courses from any field of study. Students must complete at least 51 hours of upper-division courses to qualify for graduation.
Minor in Sociology (18 hours)
For a minor in Sociology, students must take SOC 1301, SOC 3303, SOC 4302, and nine semester hours of upper-division classes with a SOC prefix, with the exception of SOC 4V97, SOC 4V98, and SOC 4V99.
1. Curriculum Requirements can be fulfilled by other approved courses from accredited institutions of higher education. The courses listed in parentheses are recommended as the most efficient way to satisfy both Core Curriculum and Major Requirements at UT Dallas.
2. A Major requirement that also fulfills a Core Curriculum requirement. Hours are counted in Core Curriculum.
3. Three hours are counted under Mathematics and Quantitative Reasoning core, and one hour is counted under Major Preparatory Courses.
4. Most students take upper-division SOC courses. However, subject to advisor approval, courses from other disciplines may be used to satisfy this requirement.
Updated: 2019-08-09 13:11:07 v2.c75c7dbugz












2013 Undergraduate Catalog

General Information

About the 2013 Catalog
About UT Dallas
University Officers
UT System Regents
Contact Information
Faculty Roster
Search 2013 Undergraduate Catalog

Undergraduate Programs

Arts and Humanities

Art and Performance
ATEC
EMAC
Historical Studies
Literary Studies

Behavioral and Brain Sciences

Child Learning and Development
Cognitive Science
Neuroscience
Psychology
Speech-Language Pathology and Audiology

Economic, Political and Policy Sciences

Criminology
Criminology and Biology
Economics
Economics and Finance
Geospatial Information Sciences
International Political Economy
Political Science
Public Affairs
Sociology

Engineering and Computer Science

Biomedical Engineering
Computer Engineering
Computer Science
Electrical Engineering
Mechanical Engineering
Software Engineering
Telecommunications Engineering

Interdisciplinary Studies

American Studies
Healthcare Studies
Interdisciplinary Studies

Jindal School of Management

Accounting
Business Administration
Business Administration and Biology
Business Administration and Molecular Biology
Finance
Finance and Economics
Global Business
Management Information Systems
Marketing
Supply Chain Management

Natural Science and Mathematics

Actuarial Science
Biochemistry
Biology
Biology and Business Administration
Biology and Criminology
Chemistry
Geosciences
Mathematics
Molecular Biology
Molecular Biology and Business Administration
Physics
Biomedical Sciences (Cert)

Teacher Certification

Undergraduate Courses

Undergraduate Courses by Subject
Undergraduate Courses by School
Undergraduate Interdisciplinary Courses
Undergraduate Developmental Courses

Undergraduate Admission

About Admission
Application Fees and Deadlines
Freshman Admission
International Student Admission
Readmission
Special Admissions
Transfer Student Admissions

Undergraduate Curriculum

About Curriculum
Core Curriculum
Honors Programs
Other Degree Requirements

Tuition and Financial Aid

About Tuition and Financial Aid
Excessive Undergraduate Hours
Refund of Tuition and Fees
Other User Fees
Financial Aid
Types of Financial Aid

Policies and Procedures

List of Undergraduate Policies

Academic
Admission
Change of Address
Correspondence - Email
Courses
Degree Plans
Disciplinary Actions
FERPA
Graduate Courses
Graduation
International Education
Military Service
Registration
Religious Holy Days
Student Travel


University Resources

List of Resources

General Resources
Health Resources
Professional Resources
Student Complaint Resources


Catalog Appendices

Appendix I - Rules, Regulations, and Statutory Requirements
Appendix II - Transfer of Lower-Division Course Credit







The University of Texas at DallasUT Dallas ProvostCourseBookContact the Provost's Technology Group






(null clip target)













