



Courses - UT Dallas 2013 Undergraduate Catalog - The University of Texas at Dallas































Jump to content
Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Catalog Home 
Undergraduate Catalogs 


2022 Undergraduate Catalog2021 Undergraduate Catalog2020 Undergraduate Catalog2019 Undergraduate Catalog2018 Undergraduate Catalog2017 Undergraduate Catalog2016 Undergraduate Catalog


 
Graduate Catalogs 


2022 Graduate Catalog2021 Graduate Catalog2020 Graduate Catalog2019 Graduate Catalog2018 Graduate Catalog2017 Graduate Catalog2016 Graduate Catalog









UT Dallas 2013 Undergraduate Catalog
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Courses
Auditing Courses
Auditing allows a student to observe the instruction of a course without earning credit. The following courses may not be audited: Computer Science and Engineering courses, Geoscience courses, Physical Education courses, Foreign Language courses, Studio/Ensemble courses, online courses, and any courses for which there is a lab fee. Participation and discussion in the course are at the discretion of the instructor. Auditing grants the privilege of hearing and observing course information and does not grant credit or access to online course tools such as eLearning.
Beginning the first day of classes through Census Day, a student may obtain an audit form at The Office of the Registrar in the Student Services Building, first floor customer service area. Please consult www.utdallas.edu/student/registrar/faq.html for more detailed audit procedures and associated non-refundable fees.
Course Load
The standard course load is 15 semester credit hours for a long semester and 12 semester credit hours in the summer.
Students wishing to register for more than 18 semester credit hours in a long semester or 15 semester credit hours in the summer must have the permission of the Associate Dean of their school; undergraduates with an undeclared major may seek that permission from the Dean of Undergraduate Education. Students authorized to enroll in more than 18 semester credit hours in a long semester or 15 semester hours in the summer may not withdraw from any class without permission of the Associate Dean of their school or the Dean of Undergraduate Education for those students without declared majors. Failure to secure that permission before withdrawing from a class will limit the student to a maximum of 18 semester credit hours in future semesters.
In considering course load, students must be sensitive to special considerations such as degree requirements, financial aid, visa status, and family health insurance, which typically require registration in a minimum number of semester credit hours per term in order to maintain eligibility.
For certification purposes, UT Dallas uses the following criteria for undergraduate students:

Full-time status - 12 semester credit hours
Three quarter-time status - 9 semester credit hours
Half-time status - 6 semester credit hours

Summer semester status is determined by total official enrolled hours for all the summer sessions.
Course Numbering System
UT Dallas courses are assigned an abbreviation of the name of the subject area followed by a four-digit course number. The first digit of the course number defines the general level of the course, i.e., a 1 or 2 indicates that the course is of undergraduate freshman or sophomore level respectively, and a 3 or 4 indicates that the course is of undergraduate junior or senior level, respectively. Graduate courses begin with the digits 5 through 8.
The second digit of the course number indicates the semester credit hour value of the course. A course is given semester credit hour values according to the number of hours per week the course meets; the typical course is three semester credit hours. The type of course (for example, lecture, laboratory, or seminar) and its meeting times determine the number of meetings per week and the length of each meeting. For additional information on semester credit hours, see policy.utdallas.edu/utdpp1090.
A "V" in the second position of the course number denotes a variable credit-hour course. The online class schedule will specify the semester credit hours available for a variable course during any given semester.
The final two digits give the course a unique number within a subject area.
In some instances of undergraduate course descriptions, a second course prefix and number in parentheses follows the first. The second course prefix and number designate the State of Texas Common Course Numbering System (TCCNS) equivalents when available. TCCNS is a standard set of designations for academic courses. Most Texas community colleges and universities have adopted this system to facilitate the transfer of academic credit from one institution to another. Wherever possible, UT Dallas course numbers match the TCCNS number, although the subject designation may differ (for example, BA versus BUSI for the Business Administration prefix).
In all cases, the course description is followed by an indication of the approximate number of contact hours per week in a semester for any lecture and/or laboratory components of the course; for example, (2-4) indicates 2 contact hours of lecture and 4 contact hours of laboratory per week.
At the end of each course description, a frequency of course offering code is available:

S = Course is offered at least once each long semester.
Y = Course is offered at least once a year.
T = Course is offered at least once every two years.
R = Course is offered based on student interest and instructor availability.

Credit/No Credit Classes
The credit/no credit option is intended to encourage students to take courses in topics outside of their major area. The credit/no credit option gives students the opportunity to broaden their education with less emphasis on grade points. A course may be designated by the instructor as unavailable to students on a credit/no credit basis. Conversely, some courses may only be available for credit/no credit.
A student will receive credit for C (2.000 on a 4.000 scale) work or better. No credit will be given for work that is below C (2.000 on a 4.000 scale). A grade of 'CR' denotes credit earned. A grade of 'NC' denotes no credit earned. Courses taken on a credit/no credit basis will not be used in the calculation of a student's GPA. Students should select courses for the credit/no credit option carefully, as this option may affect eligibility for honors. (See "Graduation with Honors" located at catalog.utdallas.edu/2013/undergraduate/policies/graduation#honors.)
For baccalaureate degree requirements, the credit/no credit option is limited to 12 semester credit hours or 20% of UT Dallas upper-division coursework, whichever is smaller. Courses in a student's major that are designated as credit/no credit are not included in this limit. Complete a credit/no credit form with the appropriate academic advisor before Census Day for the semester. A student must submit the completed credit/no credit form in person to The Office of the Registrar in the Student Services Building, first floor customer service area no later than Census Day for the semester. A student cannot repeat a letter grade course using the credit/no credit grading option.
A student may not take any course used to satisfy a Core Curriculum requirement, any course in the major or minor that is listed as a major and related course on the student's degree plan, or major prerequisite, on a credit/no credit basis if a letter grade is normally awarded in those courses. Students in the Interdisciplinary Studies program may not exercise a credit/no credit option in their foundations or concentration.
Independent Study
A student may take a maximum of 20 percent of the total hours of coursework undertaken at UT Dallas as Independent Study.
Internship Program
The Internship Program provides students with opportunities to work in assignments related directly to their fields of study. The experience provides students with the chance to apply what they learn in the classroom to practical settings. The primary focus of internships is educational in nature. In addition, students are able to stay in school and possibly earn money to defray college expenses, while clarifying academic interests, and targeting specific job markets.
Internships may be taken using the credit/no credit grading option depending on the student's degree program requirements. Internship coordinators at the Career Center can assist students with determining internship credit options and eligibility.
The University of Texas at Dallas has a flexible internship program and arrangements include the following:

Parallel: full-time or part-time internship and full-time or part-time school.
Summer: full-time or part-time internship.
Alternating Semesters: full-time internship alternating with semesters of full-time school.

For more information about the program, contact the Career Center. Telephone: 972-883-2943Email: Career CenterWebsite: www.utdallas.edu/career
Repeating Course Work
An undergraduate student is limited to three grade-bearing enrollment attempts for any specific class. An enrollment is considered grade bearing if a student receives a distributed grade (i.e., A through F) or a mark of 'W', 'NC', 'CR', 'NF', 'WL' or the historical marks of 'WP' or 'WF'. Non-academic withdrawals are not considered enrollment attempts. A student attempting the same class for the third time may be charged a penalty fee equivalent to the out-of-state tuition for the same number of semester credit hours. Courses cross-listed under more than one course prefix are considered the same course.
NOTE: Students who are Texas residents should be aware that state law limits the number of semester credit hours an undergraduate Texas resident may attempt while paying tuition at the rate provided for Texas residents. See Excessive Undergraduate Hours.
Regardless of the number of times a course is repeated, any single course can contribute only once to the number of hours required for graduation. A limited number of courses, such as independent study courses, may be repeated for credit. Students should contact their academic advisor to determine the application of such course credit toward graduation.
The grade from the first attempt will not be used in computing a student's grade point average. All further repeats will be used in computing the student's cumulative grade point average. See Grade Point Average and Transfer Credit. All grades will appear on the student's transcript. A notation beside the first grade will indicate that the course has been repeated. Courses that were originally taken for a letter grade may not be repeated for credit/no credit in lieu of a letter grade.
When a student repeats a course at UT Dallas, the student must complete a "Repeated Course Adjustment" form available at www.utdallas.edu/student/registrar/forms. The student submits, in person, the completed form to The Office of the Registrar in the Student Services Building, first floor customer service area.
Courses transferred for credit to UT Dallas from another institution of higher education may not be repeated for additional credit.
Students who fail a course in residence at UT Dallas may repeat the course at another institution of higher education. A student may not transfer an equivalent course if that course was taken at UT Dallas with a passing grade (D's included). Upon successful completion of the repeated course with a grade of at least 'C' (2.000 on a 4.000 scale), the course may be transferred to UT Dallas where it will meet the content requirements of the course failed in residence and contribute hours toward graduation. However, the grade of 'F' earned at UT Dallas will remain a part of the student's academic record and will be computed as a part of the cumulative grade point average (GPA).
Updated: 2019-08-09 13:10:47 v2.0f0517bugz












2013 Undergraduate Catalog

General Information

About the 2013 Catalog
About UT Dallas
University Officers
UT System Regents
Contact Information
Faculty Roster
Search 2013 Undergraduate Catalog

Undergraduate Programs

Arts and Humanities

Art and Performance
ATEC
EMAC
Historical Studies
Literary Studies

Behavioral and Brain Sciences

Child Learning and Development
Cognitive Science
Neuroscience
Psychology
Speech-Language Pathology and Audiology

Economic, Political and Policy Sciences

Criminology
Criminology and Biology
Economics
Economics and Finance
Geospatial Information Sciences
International Political Economy
Political Science
Public Affairs
Sociology

Engineering and Computer Science

Biomedical Engineering
Computer Engineering
Computer Science
Electrical Engineering
Mechanical Engineering
Software Engineering
Telecommunications Engineering

Interdisciplinary Studies

American Studies
Healthcare Studies
Interdisciplinary Studies

Jindal School of Management

Accounting
Business Administration
Business Administration and Biology
Business Administration and Molecular Biology
Finance
Finance and Economics
Global Business
Management Information Systems
Marketing
Supply Chain Management

Natural Science and Mathematics

Actuarial Science
Biochemistry
Biology
Biology and Business Administration
Biology and Criminology
Chemistry
Geosciences
Mathematics
Molecular Biology
Molecular Biology and Business Administration
Physics
Biomedical Sciences (Cert)

Teacher Certification

Undergraduate Courses

Undergraduate Courses by Subject
Undergraduate Courses by School
Undergraduate Interdisciplinary Courses
Undergraduate Developmental Courses

Undergraduate Admission

About Admission
Application Fees and Deadlines
Freshman Admission
International Student Admission
Readmission
Special Admissions
Transfer Student Admissions

Undergraduate Curriculum

About Curriculum
Core Curriculum
Honors Programs
Other Degree Requirements

Tuition and Financial Aid

About Tuition and Financial Aid
Excessive Undergraduate Hours
Refund of Tuition and Fees
Other User Fees
Financial Aid
Types of Financial Aid

Policies and Procedures

List of Undergraduate Policies

Academic
Admission
Change of Address
Correspondence - Email
Courses
Degree Plans
Disciplinary Actions
FERPA
Graduate Courses
Graduation
International Education
Military Service
Registration
Religious Holy Days
Student Travel


University Resources

List of Resources

General Resources
Health Resources
Professional Resources
Student Complaint Resources


Catalog Appendices

Appendix I - Rules, Regulations, and Statutory Requirements
Appendix II - Transfer of Lower-Division Course Credit







The University of Texas at DallasUT Dallas ProvostCourseBookContact the Provost's Technology Group






(null clip target)













