



Speech-Language Pathology and Audiology - UT Dallas 2013 Undergraduate Catalog - The University of Texas at Dallas































Jump to content
Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Catalog Home 
Undergraduate Catalogs 


2022 Undergraduate Catalog2021 Undergraduate Catalog2020 Undergraduate Catalog2019 Undergraduate Catalog2018 Undergraduate Catalog2017 Undergraduate Catalog2016 Undergraduate Catalog


 
Graduate Catalogs 


2022 Graduate Catalog2021 Graduate Catalog2020 Graduate Catalog2019 Graduate Catalog2018 Graduate Catalog2017 Graduate Catalog2016 Graduate Catalog









UT Dallas 2013 Undergraduate Catalog
School of Behavioral and Brain Sciences
Speech-Language Pathology and Audiology (BS)
The Speech-Language Pathology and Audiology program offers study in the processes and disorders of speech, language, and hearing. The program provides the foundation for graduate study leading to career opportunities and clinical certification as a speech-language pathologist or audiologist. Students completing the BS degree and required clock hours of clinical practicum are also eligible for Texas state licensure as a speech-language pathology assistant. The curriculum in Speech-Language Pathology and Audiology focuses on the development of communicative abilities; the anatomical and physiological mechanisms underlying speech, language, and hearing; the causes of communication disorders in children and adults; and theories and techniques of assessment and treatment of communication disorders. Supervised clinical practicum provides students experience in clinical assessment and intervention with persons having communication impairments.
Students majoring in Speech-Language Pathology and Audiology are strongly encouraged to select electives in Psychology to complement coursework in their major field. PSY 3361 Cognitive Psychology, PSY 4334 Lifespan Development, and NSC 3361 Behavioral Neuroscience are especially relevant for Speech-Language Pathology and Audiology majors. Suggested electives in the major include SPAU 3390 Clinical Practicum in Speech-Language Pathology (may be taken twice for credit), SPAU 3342 or PSY 3342 Exceptional Children, SPAU 4342 Assessment Procedures in Speech-Language Pathology, and SPAU 4395 Issues in the Management of Persons with Hearing Impairment.
Students who plan to attend graduate school in speech-language pathology or audiology should be aware that clinical certification by the American Speech-Language-Hearing Association requires that students complete at least one course in each of the following subject areas: Biological Sciences (e.g. biology, neuroscience), Physical Sciences (e.g. chemistry, physics), Behavioral Sciences (e.g. psychology, sociology), and Mathematics (statistics preferred.) Completion of this coursework prior to application to graduate school is strongly advised.
Students who wish to combine Speech-Language Pathology and Audiology with Psychology or Neuroscience should be able to meet requirements in both majors, and, with the approval of the Associate Dean, complete a double major. Students considering a double major should consult with their advisor regarding specific requirements. Students can complete Core Curriculum and Speech-Language Pathology and Audiology major requirements in a minimum of 78 semester credit hours, leaving 42 elective hours.
Bachelor of Science in Speech-Language Pathology and Audiology
Degree Requirements (120 hours)
I. Core Curriculum Requirements: 42 hours1
Communication (6 hours)
3 hours Communication (RHET 1302)
3 hours Communication Elective (SPAU 3390)2
Social and Behavioral Sciences (15 hours)
6 semester credit hours Government (GOVT 2301 and GOVT 2302)
6 hours American History
3 hours Social and Behavioral Science Elective (PSY 2301)2
Humanities and Fine Arts (6 hours)
3 hours Fine Arts (ARTS 1301)
3 hours Humanities (HUMA 1301)
Mathematics and Quantitative Reasoning (6 hours)
3 hours College Math (see Advisor for recommended courses)
3 hours Quantitative Methods (PSY 2317 or STAT 1342)
Science (9 hours with at least one lab course)
3 hours Science (SPAU 3344)2
6 hours Science Elective (Students planning to attend graduate school in speech-language pathology or audiology should take a minimum of one course in the biological sciences and one course in chemistry or physics.)
II. Major Requirements: 33 hours3
Major Preparatory Courses (3 hours)3
PSY 2301 Introduction to Psychology3
Major Core Courses (39 hours)3
SPAU 3301 Communication Disorders
SPAU 3303 Normal Language Development
SPAU 3304 Communication Sciences
SPAU 3340 Articulation Disorders
SPAU 3341 Audiology
SPAU 3343 Phonetics
SPAU 3344 Anatomy and Physiology of Speech and Hearing3
SPAU 3345 Neural Basis of Communication  or NSC 3361 Behavioral Neuroscience
SPAU 3388 Clinical Observation in Speech-Language Pathology
SPAU 3390 Clinical Practicum in Speech Language Pathology3
SPAU 4308 Language Disorders in Children
SPAU 4394 Multicultural Aspects of Communication Disorders  or SPAU 4393 Language in Culture and Society
SPAU elective (3 hour course with SPAU prefix)
III. Elective Requirements: 45 hours
Free Electives (45 hours)
At least 45 hours of lower- or upper-division courses of the student's choice. Students are encouraged to explore areas of concentration in Speech-Language Pathology and Audiology as well as explore interests outside the field. At least 51 hours of upper-division courses are required for graduation.
Minor in Speech-Language Pathology and Audiology
Students interested in communication sciences and disorders may elect to minor in Speech-Language Pathology and Audiology. Students complete 18 credit hours including 12 required hours of foundation coursework and 6 elective hours. Foundation coursework in conjunction with elective hours permits students to choose to emphasize hearing science/audiology, language development and disorders, or speech production and perception. Students majoring in Psychology, Neuroscience, or Cognitive Science, or students with interests in the health sciences may find that a minor in Speech-Language Pathology and Audiology adds a valuable interdisciplinary dimension to their overall plan of study and may enhance their opportunities for graduate study. No credit hours may be used to satisfy both major and minor requirements; however, free elective hours or major preparatory classes may be used to satisfy the minor. At least one-third of the hours for a minor must be taken at UT Dallas.
Foundation Courses (12 hours required)
SPAU 3301 Communication Disorders
SPAU 3303 Normal Language Development
SPAU 3304 Communication Sciences
SPAU 3343 Phonetics
Elective Courses (select 6 hours)
SPAU 3340 Articulation Disorders
SPAU 3341 Audiology
SPAU 3344 Anatomy and Physiology of Speech and Hearing
SPAU 3388 Clinical Observation in Speech-Language Pathology
SPAU 3390 Clinical Practicum in Speech-Language Pathology
SPAU 4308 Language Disorders in Children
SPAU 4393 Language in Culture and Society
SPAU 4395 Issues in the Management of Persons with Hearing Impairment
Fast Track Baccalaureate/Master's Degrees
UT Dallas undergraduate students with strong academic records who intend to pursue a master's degree in Communication Disorders at the University may consider an accelerated undergraduate-graduate plan of study. If accepted into the program, students may take up to 15 hours of graduate courses that may be used to complete the baccalaureate degree and also to satisfy requirements for the master's degree. Students must earn grades of B or better in graduate courses taken. Students must have completed at least 90 semester credit hours toward a baccalaureate degree before beginning Fast Track coursework. Students may apply for Fast Track admission up to one semester before they reach 90 hours. To qualify for admission, students must have completed at least 18 semester credit hours in major field core courses at UT Dallas. Application for admission to the Fast Track is through the graduate Communication Disorders program, not through Enrollment Services. GRE scores are required. For applications and instructions, please contact the Associate Dean's office.
1. Curriculum Requirements can be fulfilled by other approved courses from accredited institutions of higher education. The courses listed in parentheses are recommended as the most efficient way to satisfy both Core Curriculum and Major Requirements at UT Dallas.
2. A required Major course that also fulfills a Core Curriculum requirement. Hours are counted in Core Curriculum.
3. A required Major course that also fulfills a Core Curriculum requirement. Nine (9) hours are counted in Core Curriculum.
Updated: 2019-08-09 13:10:53 v2.017a00bugz












2013 Undergraduate Catalog

General Information

About the 2013 Catalog
About UT Dallas
University Officers
UT System Regents
Contact Information
Faculty Roster
Search 2013 Undergraduate Catalog

Undergraduate Programs

Arts and Humanities

Art and Performance
ATEC
EMAC
Historical Studies
Literary Studies

Behavioral and Brain Sciences

Child Learning and Development
Cognitive Science
Neuroscience
Psychology
Speech-Language Pathology and Audiology

Economic, Political and Policy Sciences

Criminology
Criminology and Biology
Economics
Economics and Finance
Geospatial Information Sciences
International Political Economy
Political Science
Public Affairs
Sociology

Engineering and Computer Science

Biomedical Engineering
Computer Engineering
Computer Science
Electrical Engineering
Mechanical Engineering
Software Engineering
Telecommunications Engineering

Interdisciplinary Studies

American Studies
Healthcare Studies
Interdisciplinary Studies

Jindal School of Management

Accounting
Business Administration
Business Administration and Biology
Business Administration and Molecular Biology
Finance
Finance and Economics
Global Business
Management Information Systems
Marketing
Supply Chain Management

Natural Science and Mathematics

Actuarial Science
Biochemistry
Biology
Biology and Business Administration
Biology and Criminology
Chemistry
Geosciences
Mathematics
Molecular Biology
Molecular Biology and Business Administration
Physics
Biomedical Sciences (Cert)

Teacher Certification

Undergraduate Courses

Undergraduate Courses by Subject
Undergraduate Courses by School
Undergraduate Interdisciplinary Courses
Undergraduate Developmental Courses

Undergraduate Admission

About Admission
Application Fees and Deadlines
Freshman Admission
International Student Admission
Readmission
Special Admissions
Transfer Student Admissions

Undergraduate Curriculum

About Curriculum
Core Curriculum
Honors Programs
Other Degree Requirements

Tuition and Financial Aid

About Tuition and Financial Aid
Excessive Undergraduate Hours
Refund of Tuition and Fees
Other User Fees
Financial Aid
Types of Financial Aid

Policies and Procedures

List of Undergraduate Policies

Academic
Admission
Change of Address
Correspondence - Email
Courses
Degree Plans
Disciplinary Actions
FERPA
Graduate Courses
Graduation
International Education
Military Service
Registration
Religious Holy Days
Student Travel


University Resources

List of Resources

General Resources
Health Resources
Professional Resources
Student Complaint Resources


Catalog Appendices

Appendix I - Rules, Regulations, and Statutory Requirements
Appendix II - Transfer of Lower-Division Course Credit







The University of Texas at DallasUT Dallas ProvostCourseBookContact the Provost's Technology Group






(null clip target)













