



Engineering and Computer Science - UT Dallas 2013 Undergraduate Catalog - The University of Texas at Dallas































Jump to content
Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Catalog Home 
Undergraduate Catalogs 


2022 Undergraduate Catalog2021 Undergraduate Catalog2020 Undergraduate Catalog2019 Undergraduate Catalog2018 Undergraduate Catalog2017 Undergraduate Catalog2016 Undergraduate Catalog


 
Graduate Catalogs 


2022 Graduate Catalog2021 Graduate Catalog2020 Graduate Catalog2019 Graduate Catalog2018 Graduate Catalog2017 Graduate Catalog2016 Graduate Catalog









UT Dallas 2013 Undergraduate Catalog
Erik Jonsson School of Engineering and Computer Science
Named in honor of one of the three founders of Texas Instruments, Inc. and of The University of Texas at Dallas, the Erik Jonsson School of Engineering and Computer Science provides undergraduate degree preparation for professional practice as an engineer or computer scientist. Particular emphasis is placed on developing strong analytical and problem solving abilities as a foundation for graduate study in these fields.
The school's curricula emphasize electronic information processing devices and technologies that are involved with the acquisition, interpretation, transmission, and utilization of information. The school offers seven degree programs: Biomedical Engineering, Computer Engineering, Computer Science, Electrical Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, Software Engineering and Telecommunications Engineering; a minor in Nanoscience and Nanotechnology is offered by the Department of Materials Science and Engineering. The Biomedical Engineering program offers students the opportunity to combine engineering with biology and physiology. The Computer Science program emphasizes the design and analysis of efficient parallel and sequential algorithms with applications in VLSI layout and routing, distributed networks and operating systems, image processing, computational geometry, automation and robotics. The Software Engineering program concentrates on all aspects of software development including requirements engineering, software architecture and design, program testing, validation, and quality assurance. The Electrical Engineering program offers students an opportunity to acquire a solid foundation in the broad areas of electrical engineering and emphasizes advanced study in digital systems, telecommunications, and microelectronics. The Mechanical Engineering program focuses on the analysis, design, manufacturing of mechanical and thermal systems with particular emphasis on energy conversion, harvesting, and utilization, micro- and nano-technology devices and processes, and robotics. The Computer Engineering and Telecommunications Engineering programs are interdisciplinary, as they require a blend of knowledge from the areas of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science.
All programs are based on a solid foundation of science and mathematics coursework. Students in these programs are given an opportunity to learn to extend their abilities to analyze and solve complex problems and to design new uses of technology to serve today's society. The Engineering programs provide an integrated educational experience directed toward the development of the ability to apply pertinent knowledge to the identification and solution of practical problems in engineering. These programs ensure that the design experience is developed and integrated throughout the curriculum in a sequential development leading to advanced work and includes both analytical and experimental studies. Established cooperative education programs with area industry serve to further supplement design experiences.
The University of Texas at Dallas is located at the heart of a high concentration of companies that specialize in the areas of microelectronics, telecommunications, signal processing and optics. The Erik Jonsson School of Engineering and Computer Science maintains close relationships with these companies and has established cooperative programs through which students can obtain industrial experience to complement their classroom instruction. Details of specific cooperative programs between Computer Science and Engineering students and local companies are available in the respective program offices.
Industrial Practice Programs
The Industrial Practice Programs (IP Programs or IPP) of the Erik Jonsson School of Engineering and Computer Science include the school's Cooperative Education, Internship, and Curricular Practical Training Programs. These programs combine classroom learning with paid work experience. Qualified students are referred to participating employers seeking candidates for career-related, pre-professional work assignments. The programs enhance a student's education and career preparation by integrating classroom theory with on-the-job performance, providing an understanding of work environments and professional requirements, testing career and professional goals, developing confidence, maturity and skills in human relations, and establishing contacts and interests.
Students are expected to register with and follow the rules of the IP Programs when working in any position titled by the employer as an Internship or a Cooperative Education assignment. Also, the Jonsson School offers one credit hour ECSC courses (may be used towards free elective requirements), and a three-hour course (may be used towards advanced free elective requirements) that provide students the opportunity to evaluate their work experience.
For more information about the IP programs, call (972) 883-4363. The IP Programs Office is located in the Student Services suite (ECS South 2.502).
Department of Materials Science and Engineering
Faculty
Professors: Orlando Auciello, Yves J. Chabal, Kyeongjae (KJ) Cho, Massimo V. Fischetti, Bruce E. Gnade, Zygmunt Haas, Julia W. P. Hsu, Jiyoung Kim, Moon J. Kim, Robert M. Wallace
Professor Emeritus: Don Shaw
Associate Professors: Lev D. Gelb, Manuel Quevedo-Lopez, Amy V. Walker
Assistant Professors: Cong Liu, Christopher L. Hinkle, Walter E. Voit, Chadwin D. Young
Research Professor: Padmakumar Nair
Senior Lecturers: Michael Christiansen, Chris I. Davis, Jason W. Smith, Don Vogel
Minor in Nanoscience and Technology
Goals for the Minor in Nanoscience and Technology
As the field of nanotechnology develops further, particularly in the north Texas region, The University of Texas at Dallas has an important role to play in the education of knowledge workers for the industry. The Minor in Nanoscience and Technology offered by the Department of Materials Science and Technology provides a means for undergraduate students to familiarize themselves with the concepts and principles of nanotechnology.
This minor has been designed around three core NANO designated courses, the content of which is exclusively related to Nanoscience and Nanotechnology. The remaining nine hours of courses may be chosen from the list of courses below.
The contents of the courses BIOL 4461, CHEM 3322, and PHYS 4301 are similar enough that only one of these three courses may count toward the minor. In addition, several lower-division electives have been included to provide streamlined access to the available upper-division electives.
Since the three core courses are all upper-division electives, only one of the remaining nine hours must be an upper-division course, although students may choose to challenge themselves by pursuing all nine hours as upper-division electives.
In concordance with the creation of this minor, the Nanoscience (NANO) course designation would be added to the course catalog for use in designating future Nanoscience-specific courses as they are created.
Educational Objectives for the Minor in Nanoscience and Technology
On completion of the Minor program, students will:

Have a comprehensive general education background
Have a working knowledge of nanotechnology and nanoscience principles and industry applications
Be able to apply key concepts in materials science, chemistry, physics, biology, and engineering to the field of nanotechnology
Understand the societal and technology issues that may impede the adoption of nanotechnology
Have the ability to communicate effectively and work collaboratively
Be able to become successful professionals and, if they desire, be able to pursue graduate study
Be able to identify career paths and requisite knowledge and skills for career change towards nanotechnology

Requirements for the Minor in Nanoscience and Technology
A total of 18 hours are required, consisting of three core classes (9 hours) and 9 additional hours of electives.
I. Core Requirements: 9 hours
NANO 3301 Introduction to Nanoscience and Nanotechnology
NANO 3302 Microscopy, Spectroscopy, and Nanotech Instrumentation
NANO 4V95 Undergraduate Research in Nanotechnology
II. Elective Requirements: 9 hours
Students must complete at least nine hours chosen from the following courses. At least one of the courses must be upper-division (3000 or 4000):
Nano-designated courses:
NANO 3310 Introduction to Materials Science
NANO 4391 or EE 4391 Technology of Plasma
NANO 4V95 Undergraduate Research in Nanotechnology
Any other upper-division NANO-designated course
Lower-division courses:
CHEM 2323 Introductory Organic Chemistry I
CHEM 2325 Introductory Organic Chemistry II
MATH 2451 Multivariable Calculus with Applications
PHYS 2303 Contemporary Physics
MECH 2320 Strength of Materials
Upper-division courses:
PHYS 4352 Concepts of Modern Physics
PHYS 4383 Plasma Physics
MECH 4360 Introduction to Nanostructured Materials
MECH 4370 Introduction to MEMS
MECH 3301 Mechanics of Materials
EE 4392 Introduction to Optical Systems
EE 3310 Electronic Devices
EE 3311 Electronic Circuits
CHEM 4335 Polymer Chemistry
CHEM 3472 Instrumental Analysis
CHEM 4473 Physical Measurements Laboratory
CHEM 3321 Physical Chemistry I
CHEM 4355 Computational Modeling
 Only one of the following courses may be used to count toward the Minor:
BIOL 4461 Biophysical Chemistry
CHEM 3322 Physical Chemistry II
PHYS 4301 Quantum Mechanics I
Updated: 2019-08-09 13:10:51 v2.aaa044bugz












2013 Undergraduate Catalog

General Information

About the 2013 Catalog
About UT Dallas
University Officers
UT System Regents
Contact Information
Faculty Roster
Search 2013 Undergraduate Catalog

Undergraduate Programs

Arts and Humanities

Art and Performance
ATEC
EMAC
Historical Studies
Literary Studies

Behavioral and Brain Sciences

Child Learning and Development
Cognitive Science
Neuroscience
Psychology
Speech-Language Pathology and Audiology

Economic, Political and Policy Sciences

Criminology
Criminology and Biology
Economics
Economics and Finance
Geospatial Information Sciences
International Political Economy
Political Science
Public Affairs
Sociology

Engineering and Computer Science

Biomedical Engineering
Computer Engineering
Computer Science
Electrical Engineering
Mechanical Engineering
Software Engineering
Telecommunications Engineering

Interdisciplinary Studies

American Studies
Healthcare Studies
Interdisciplinary Studies

Jindal School of Management

Accounting
Business Administration
Business Administration and Biology
Business Administration and Molecular Biology
Finance
Finance and Economics
Global Business
Management Information Systems
Marketing
Supply Chain Management

Natural Science and Mathematics

Actuarial Science
Biochemistry
Biology
Biology and Business Administration
Biology and Criminology
Chemistry
Geosciences
Mathematics
Molecular Biology
Molecular Biology and Business Administration
Physics
Biomedical Sciences (Cert)

Teacher Certification

Undergraduate Courses

Undergraduate Courses by Subject
Undergraduate Courses by School
Undergraduate Interdisciplinary Courses
Undergraduate Developmental Courses

Undergraduate Admission

About Admission
Application Fees and Deadlines
Freshman Admission
International Student Admission
Readmission
Special Admissions
Transfer Student Admissions

Undergraduate Curriculum

About Curriculum
Core Curriculum
Honors Programs
Other Degree Requirements

Tuition and Financial Aid

About Tuition and Financial Aid
Excessive Undergraduate Hours
Refund of Tuition and Fees
Other User Fees
Financial Aid
Types of Financial Aid

Policies and Procedures

List of Undergraduate Policies

Academic
Admission
Change of Address
Correspondence - Email
Courses
Degree Plans
Disciplinary Actions
FERPA
Graduate Courses
Graduation
International Education
Military Service
Registration
Religious Holy Days
Student Travel


University Resources

List of Resources

General Resources
Health Resources
Professional Resources
Student Complaint Resources


Catalog Appendices

Appendix I - Rules, Regulations, and Statutory Requirements
Appendix II - Transfer of Lower-Division Course Credit







The University of Texas at DallasUT Dallas ProvostCourseBookContact the Provost's Technology Group






(null clip target)













