



Graduation - UT Dallas 2013 Undergraduate Catalog - The University of Texas at Dallas































Jump to content
Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Catalog Home 
Undergraduate Catalogs 


2022 Undergraduate Catalog2021 Undergraduate Catalog2020 Undergraduate Catalog2019 Undergraduate Catalog2018 Undergraduate Catalog2017 Undergraduate Catalog2016 Undergraduate Catalog


 
Graduate Catalogs 


2022 Graduate Catalog2021 Graduate Catalog2020 Graduate Catalog2019 Graduate Catalog2018 Graduate Catalog2017 Graduate Catalog2016 Graduate Catalog









UT Dallas 2013 Undergraduate Catalog
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Graduation
Application for Graduation
Students must complete the online application for graduation after meeting with their academic advisor. The procedures and deadlines for submitting this application are listed in the online Comet Calendar and Academic Calendar. Students are encouraged to apply for graduation prior to registering for their last semester. Students who apply after the posted deadline will be required to pay a non-refundable late fee. Completion of the graduation application is an acknowledgement upon completion of all degree requirements, the student will graduate at the end of the semester. Students cannot withdraw the online application for graduation once it has been submitted. The University reserves the right to graduate any student who has satisfactorily met all requirements for graduation. All in-progress courses on the academic record must contain final grades prior to certification and posting of final graduation status. Once the graduation grade point average (GPA) is set, any change of grades or repeat of coursework only affect the overall GPA.
Graduation Ceremonies
Ceremonies are held at the conclusion of each spring and fall semester. There is no summer graduation ceremony.
Students scheduled to graduate following a summer semester may petition to take part in the preceding spring ceremony or following fall ceremony. Students graduating in the summer semester must submit a "Commencement Ceremony Participation Intent" form along with the online application for graduation in person to the Office of the Registrar in the Student Services Building, first floor customer service area by the posted application for graduation deadline. Students who submit the intent form after the posted deadline will be required to pay a non-refundable late fee. (See www.utdallas.edu/student/registrar/graduation/grad-summer.htm for details.) Students who graduate at the conclusion of the fall or spring semester may only graduate in the respective graduation ceremony.
Honors Convocation ceremonies are only held at the conclusion of each spring semester.
Graduation with Honors
Students who show particular distinction in scholarship at the University are afforded the opportunity of graduating with Collegium V, Latin Honors and/or Major Honors. Only grades earned at The University of Texas at Dallas are used in determining graduation with honors.
Collegium V
Students graduating with Collegium V Honors will complete at least 24 semester credit hours within the programs and maintain a 3.500 cumulative grade point average on at least 45 hours of graded credit. In their senior year, students must complete a senior thesis or senior project. They also must participate in a select number of extra-curricular events over the course of their academic career.
Latin Honors
Graduates may earn one of three degrees of Latin Honors: summa cum laude, magna cum laude, or cum laude. Requirements for graduation with Latin Honors are as follows:
A minimum of 45 UT Dallas graded credit hours are required. Each Latin Honors level requires a minimum grade point average (GPA) to be attained over all coursework taken at The University of Texas at Dallas. In the case of a student with a double major who wishes to graduate with Latin Honors, a single honors designation will be awarded in the primary major. Students graduating with double degrees who wish to receive honors for both degrees must complete separate honors requirements for each degree.
The grade point requirements for Latin Honors are issued by the University in the summer of each academic year and apply to graduates in the following academic year. The thresholds for each level of honors are determined from a rolling average of the grades of all graduates for the previous six long semesters. Averages are computed separately for each school within the University. The GPA that represents the top five percent of all graduates in a particular school will be considered the threshold for awarding summa cum laude honors. The GPA that defines the next 10 percent in each school will be the lower limit for magna cum laude. The average grade that defines the next 15 percent in each school will be considered the benchmark for awarding cum laude honors. A minimum GPA of 3.400 is required for any Latin Honors.
Major Honors
Students may graduate with honors from their individual schools based on participation in their school's Honors Program. Each program provides two levels of recognition, Honors and Distinction. All students must have completed a minimum of 30 graded semester credit hours to qualify for Major Honors.
The requirements for school honor's recognition vary across schools. Students should review the descriptions within the school section of the catalog. To graduate with school distinction honors, students must complete an undergraduate thesis judged by faculty to be of exemplary quality.
Collegium V, Latin and Major Honors are reported on students' transcripts and diplomas.
Graduation Under a Particular Catalog
Provided the requisite courses continue to be offered, and given continuous enrollment, students are bound by the Core Curriculum requirements of the catalog in force at the time of admission, within that catalog's six-year limit. For students who change their major, the graduation requirements for that major will be those stated in the catalog in force at the time of the change. The Core Curriculum requirements, however, remain those of the catalog in force at the time of matriculation unless the student specifically chooses those of a more recent catalog or the catalog in force at the time matriculation expires. Should any requisite major courses cease to be offered, substitutions would be made by the Associate Dean of Undergraduate Education.
Should any requisite Core Curriculum courses cease to be offered, substitutions will be made by the Office of Undergraduate Education. Core Curriculum requirements must be met by all students pursuing a baccalaureate degree at The University of Texas at Dallas, regardless of their major. A specific course may be used to satisfy only one core requirement. Individual academic programs may require courses contained in parts of the University Core Curriculum to satisfy particular degree requirements. Students may be required to take extra courses if they fail to select these courses.
Administrative requirements such as minimum grade point requirements may change for all students with the issuance of a new catalog.
Graduation Requirements
Each candidate for a baccalaureate degree must complete a minimum of 120 semester credit hours of coursework. Some degree programs require more than 120 hours. Within this requirement, students must complete the following:

At least 51 semester credit hours of upper-division (3000/4000 level) coursework, to include a minimum of 12 hours of advanced courses in the major subject.
At least 45 semester credit hours must be taken at The University of Texas at Dallas.
At least 24 of the last 30 hours needed for a baccalaureate degree must be taken at The University of Texas at Dallas.
No coursework may be taken off campus in a student's final graduating semester.
All transfer credit must be submitted with official transcripts prior to a student's final graduating semester.
All in-progress coursework must be completed in order to graduate.
A maximum of three semester credit hours of physical education activity can be applied toward degree requirements.
A minimum GPA of 2.000 on a 4.000 scale (C average) is required in the major and related courses, in any declared minor, and overall. Major preparatory classes are not included in the calculation of the major GPA. Only grades earned at The University of Texas at Dallas are used in calculating this GPA.
Students must satisfactorily complete all degree requirements specified by the school or college in which the degree is offered. (See "Academic Degree Requirements" at catalog.utdallas.edu/2013/undergraduate/curriculum#academic-degree-requirements.) In many instances, the college/school/department academic program requirements may exceed the University core requirements.
Students must satisfy the Core Curriculum which is described in full at catalog.utdallas.edu/2013/undergraduate/curriculum/core-curriculum.
A candidate for a degree must be enrolled at UT Dallas during the semester in which The Office of the Registrar confirms completion of degree requirements. Students may register in absentia if enrollment in a course is not required. (In-absentia registration is explained at catalog.utdallas.edu/2013/undergraduate/policies/registration#inabsentia.)
Students must complete an official degree plan prepared by the academic unit, pursuant to the required filing of degree plan, Texas Education Code, Section 51.9685. The degree plan must be on file no later than the completion of 45 or more earned semester credit hours. The degree plan will be reviewed at the completion of 75 semester credit hours.
Students will be notified by the University that filing a degree plan is required by state law and prevent students from obtaining official transcripts until the degree plan is filed.
To qualify for a double degree or a double major from The University of Texas at Dallas, please review "Other Degree Requirements" at catalog.utdallas.edu/2013/undergraduate/curriculum/other-degree-requirements.

Note: General and specific requirements for degrees in undergraduate programs may be altered in subsequent catalogs.
Updated: 2019-08-09 13:10:48 v2.f401b0bugz












2013 Undergraduate Catalog

General Information

About the 2013 Catalog
About UT Dallas
University Officers
UT System Regents
Contact Information
Faculty Roster
Search 2013 Undergraduate Catalog

Undergraduate Programs

Arts and Humanities

Art and Performance
ATEC
EMAC
Historical Studies
Literary Studies

Behavioral and Brain Sciences

Child Learning and Development
Cognitive Science
Neuroscience
Psychology
Speech-Language Pathology and Audiology

Economic, Political and Policy Sciences

Criminology
Criminology and Biology
Economics
Economics and Finance
Geospatial Information Sciences
International Political Economy
Political Science
Public Affairs
Sociology

Engineering and Computer Science

Biomedical Engineering
Computer Engineering
Computer Science
Electrical Engineering
Mechanical Engineering
Software Engineering
Telecommunications Engineering

Interdisciplinary Studies

American Studies
Healthcare Studies
Interdisciplinary Studies

Jindal School of Management

Accounting
Business Administration
Business Administration and Biology
Business Administration and Molecular Biology
Finance
Finance and Economics
Global Business
Management Information Systems
Marketing
Supply Chain Management

Natural Science and Mathematics

Actuarial Science
Biochemistry
Biology
Biology and Business Administration
Biology and Criminology
Chemistry
Geosciences
Mathematics
Molecular Biology
Molecular Biology and Business Administration
Physics
Biomedical Sciences (Cert)

Teacher Certification

Undergraduate Courses

Undergraduate Courses by Subject
Undergraduate Courses by School
Undergraduate Interdisciplinary Courses
Undergraduate Developmental Courses

Undergraduate Admission

About Admission
Application Fees and Deadlines
Freshman Admission
International Student Admission
Readmission
Special Admissions
Transfer Student Admissions

Undergraduate Curriculum

About Curriculum
Core Curriculum
Honors Programs
Other Degree Requirements

Tuition and Financial Aid

About Tuition and Financial Aid
Excessive Undergraduate Hours
Refund of Tuition and Fees
Other User Fees
Financial Aid
Types of Financial Aid

Policies and Procedures

List of Undergraduate Policies

Academic
Admission
Change of Address
Correspondence - Email
Courses
Degree Plans
Disciplinary Actions
FERPA
Graduate Courses
Graduation
International Education
Military Service
Registration
Religious Holy Days
Student Travel


University Resources

List of Resources

General Resources
Health Resources
Professional Resources
Student Complaint Resources


Catalog Appendices

Appendix I - Rules, Regulations, and Statutory Requirements
Appendix II - Transfer of Lower-Division Course Credit







The University of Texas at DallasUT Dallas ProvostCourseBookContact the Provost's Technology Group






(null clip target)













