



International Education - UT Dallas 2013 Undergraduate Catalog - The University of Texas at Dallas































Jump to content
Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Catalog Home 
Undergraduate Catalogs 


2022 Undergraduate Catalog2021 Undergraduate Catalog2020 Undergraduate Catalog2019 Undergraduate Catalog2018 Undergraduate Catalog2017 Undergraduate Catalog2016 Undergraduate Catalog


 
Graduate Catalogs 


2022 Graduate Catalog2021 Graduate Catalog2020 Graduate Catalog2019 Graduate Catalog2018 Graduate Catalog2017 Graduate Catalog2016 Graduate Catalog









UT Dallas 2013 Undergraduate Catalog
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
International Education
Information about international educational opportunities is available at the Office of International Education (OIE), Green Center (GC) 2.216. Students are required to satisfy the institutional protocol for international mobility under the guidance of OIE advisors to select the program most appropriate to their individual needs and interests. The advising process includes University policies governing international education, application, selection procedures, funding sources, international health insurance, emergency procedures, and liability issues, among other aspects. Information is also disseminated through study abroad fairs, special events, group meetings, individual appointments, reference materials and at the OIE website.
Students may participate in international educational programs through five types of mobility:

Study Abroad: Students register for study abroad courses after they complete the institutional protocol, which includes the approval of the Associate Dean of the appropriate academic department, the approval of the Office of the Registrar, and the endorsement of OIE. Study Abroad programs are offered by organizations and institutions specialized in designing academic courses in foreign destinations for U.S. students. Credits are awarded as transfer credits. Students are responsible for paying program fees directly to the selected study abroad provider. Therefore, students are not assessed UT Dallas' tuition and fees. Student may not apply their Academic Excellence Scholarships toward these programs.
Exchange Program: Students register full time at UT Dallas, but pursue the academic program in a foreign university with which UT Dallas has an active Exchange Program Agreement. Students may select from a large portfolio of exchange programs with the academic guidance of the Associate Dean from the appropriate academic department, who assesses the academic content of the program for UT Dallas credit equivalency purposes. Students earn resident credit. Students are assessed the normal UT Dallas' tuition and fees. Students may apply their Academic Excellence Scholarships toward these programs.
Independent Studies: For independent studies, students register academic work designed to be pursued in a foreign destination under UT Dallas' faculty supervision and with the approval of the appropriate department. Students are assessed normal tuition and fees for the number of semester credit hours they undertake as independent studies.
Internships: For internships, students register a work assignment related directly to their field of study in a foreign destination under UT Dallas' faculty supervision. Students are assessed normal tuition and fees for the number of semester credit hours they undertake as an internship. Students should visit the internship coordinator in the Career Center to go over departmental guidelines.
Faculty-led Programs: Academic units may offer courses taught abroad as part of their regular curriculum. Students who take these courses follow normal registration procedures and are assessed normal tuition and fees for the number of semester credit hours they undertake. Additional fees are charged to cover program costs.

Eligibility and Conditions
Students are subject to the successful satisfaction of UT Dallas' OIE Protocol according to the deadlines published in OIE web page. Students may pursue international education programs for a maximum of two semesters.
A student must have a minimum of 2.000 GPA to participate in study abroad programs, independent studies, or internships. A student must have a minimum of 3.000 GPA to participate in exchange programs. GPA requirements for faculty-led programs are determined by the academic unit offering the program.
Undergraduates must earn a minimum of 30 credit hours at UT Dallas (resident hours) prior to participating in study abroad programs, exchange programs, independent studies or internships. Upper division transfer undergraduate students must successfully complete a minimum of 15 semester credit hours at UT Dallas (resident hours) prior to participating in study abroad programs, exchange programs, independent studies, or internships. Lower division transfer undergraduate students must successfully complete a minimum of 30 semester credit hours at UT Dallas (resident hours) prior to participating in study abroad programs, exchange programs, independent studies, or internships.
The 24/30 rule states that students must complete at least 24 of their last 30 hours at UT Dallas. Students who are within the jurisdiction of the 24/30 rule and plan to graduate must obtain a waiver from the Dean of Undergraduate Studies to be eligible for international education. Students may obtain guidance from OIE or their academic advisors to submit their waiver petition to the Dean of Undergraduate Studies.
Financial Assistance
Students may apply for the UT Dallas' International Education Fund Scholarship (IEFS) to obtain complementary financial support for study abroad programs. Information about the IEFS, including eligibility requirements and deadlines, is available at the OIE website.
In addition to the Office of International Education, students may consult with the Office of Financial Aid for other funding opportunities for international education.
Grades/Credits
Credits earned in study abroad programs, exchange programs, independent studies, internships, and/or faculty-led programs translate directly onto UT Dallas' transcript.
Core Curriculum courses taken while studying abroad must be taken for a grade. A minimum of 2.000 on a scale of 4.000 must be earned to transfer credits to UT Dallas.
The Office of the Registrar will review transcripts and assign credit(s).
Official Transcripts
Transcripts must be mailed to the Office of International Education. Transcripts received from foreign institutions in a language other than English must be translated by a professional translation service for official posting of transfer credit. The use of a professional translation service ensures the authenticity, consistency, and accuracy of transferring credits. It is the responsibility of the student to provide an English translation of the transcript and pay any associated costs. Transcript translation services are not provided by the University.
Programs
The Associate Deans in each school determine how general courses and Core Curriculum courses apply to UT Dallas' degree plan. Approval may be required by more than one Associate Dean for courses outside the student's major. All courses must be pre-approved by the Associate Dean from the appropriate academic department, the Office of the Registrar, and the Office of International Education.
Travel Warnings
The University of Texas at Dallas does not recommend nor support study abroad programs in regions of the world for which the U.S. State Department has issued a "Travel Warning." Students considering study in regions with Travel Warnings must submit their cases to the Secretary of the UT Dallas Advisory Council on International Education (ACIE), OIE Director, for further evaluation (www.utdallas.edu/oie/acie.htm). A Travel Warning is the federal government's recommendation to avoid or consider the risk of travel to a specific foreign destination.
Updated: 2019-08-09 13:10:45 v3.ef523cbugz












2013 Undergraduate Catalog

General Information

About the 2013 Catalog
About UT Dallas
University Officers
UT System Regents
Contact Information
Faculty Roster
Search 2013 Undergraduate Catalog

Undergraduate Programs

Arts and Humanities

Art and Performance
ATEC
EMAC
Historical Studies
Literary Studies

Behavioral and Brain Sciences

Child Learning and Development
Cognitive Science
Neuroscience
Psychology
Speech-Language Pathology and Audiology

Economic, Political and Policy Sciences

Criminology
Criminology and Biology
Economics
Economics and Finance
Geospatial Information Sciences
International Political Economy
Political Science
Public Affairs
Sociology

Engineering and Computer Science

Biomedical Engineering
Computer Engineering
Computer Science
Electrical Engineering
Mechanical Engineering
Software Engineering
Telecommunications Engineering

Interdisciplinary Studies

American Studies
Healthcare Studies
Interdisciplinary Studies

Jindal School of Management

Accounting
Business Administration
Business Administration and Biology
Business Administration and Molecular Biology
Finance
Finance and Economics
Global Business
Management Information Systems
Marketing
Supply Chain Management

Natural Science and Mathematics

Actuarial Science
Biochemistry
Biology
Biology and Business Administration
Biology and Criminology
Chemistry
Geosciences
Mathematics
Molecular Biology
Molecular Biology and Business Administration
Physics
Biomedical Sciences (Cert)

Teacher Certification

Undergraduate Courses

Undergraduate Courses by Subject
Undergraduate Courses by School
Undergraduate Interdisciplinary Courses
Undergraduate Developmental Courses

Undergraduate Admission

About Admission
Application Fees and Deadlines
Freshman Admission
International Student Admission
Readmission
Special Admissions
Transfer Student Admissions

Undergraduate Curriculum

About Curriculum
Core Curriculum
Honors Programs
Other Degree Requirements

Tuition and Financial Aid

About Tuition and Financial Aid
Excessive Undergraduate Hours
Refund of Tuition and Fees
Other User Fees
Financial Aid
Types of Financial Aid

Policies and Procedures

List of Undergraduate Policies

Academic
Admission
Change of Address
Correspondence - Email
Courses
Degree Plans
Disciplinary Actions
FERPA
Graduate Courses
Graduation
International Education
Military Service
Registration
Religious Holy Days
Student Travel


University Resources

List of Resources

General Resources
Health Resources
Professional Resources
Student Complaint Resources


Catalog Appendices

Appendix I - Rules, Regulations, and Statutory Requirements
Appendix II - Transfer of Lower-Division Course Credit







The University of Texas at DallasUT Dallas ProvostCourseBookContact the Provost's Technology Group






(null clip target)













