



Appendix I - Rules, Regulations, and Statutory Requirements - UT Dallas 2013 Graduate Catalog - The University of Texas at Dallas































Jump to content
Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Catalog Home 
Undergraduate Catalogs 


2022 Undergraduate Catalog2021 Undergraduate Catalog2020 Undergraduate Catalog2019 Undergraduate Catalog2018 Undergraduate Catalog2017 Undergraduate Catalog2016 Undergraduate Catalog


 
Graduate Catalogs 


2022 Graduate Catalog2021 Graduate Catalog2020 Graduate Catalog2019 Graduate Catalog2018 Graduate Catalog2017 Graduate Catalog2016 Graduate Catalog









UT Dallas 2013 Graduate Catalog

Appendix I


 Rules, Regulations, and Statutory Requirements

 
 A. Student Conduct and Discipline
 The University of Texas System and The University of Texas at Dallas have rules and regulations for the orderly and efficient conduct of their business. It is the responsibility of each student and each student organization to be knowledgeable about the rules and regulations which govern student conduct and activities. General information on student conduct and discipline is contained in the UT Dallas publication, A to Z Guide, which is provided to all registered students each academic year.

 The University of Texas at Dallas administers student discipline within the procedures of recognized and established due process. Procedures are defined and described in the Rules and Regulations, Board of Regents, The University of Texas System, Series 50101 and in Student Discipline and Conduct, UTSP5003. Copies of these rules and regulations are available to students in the Office of the Dean of Students where staff are available to assist students in interpreting the rules and regulations (SSB 4.400, 972-883-6391).

 A student at the university neither loses the rights nor escapes the responsibilities of citizenship. He or she is expected to obey federal, state, and local laws as well as the Regents' Rules, university regulations, and administrative rules. Students are subject to discipline for violating its standards of conduct whether such conduct takes place on or off campus or whether civil or criminal penalties are also imposed for such conduct.

 
 Academic Dishonesty. The faculty expects from its students a high level of responsibility and academic honesty. Because the value of an academic degree depends upon the absolute integrity of the work done by the student for that degree, it is imperative that a student demonstrates a high standard of individual honor in his or her scholastic work.

 Scholastic dishonesty includes, but is not limited to, statements, acts or omissions related to applications for enrollment or the award of a degree, and/or the submission as one's own work of material that is not one's own. As a general rule, scholastic dishonesty involves one of the following acts: cheating, plagiarism, collusion and/or falsifying academic records. Students suspected of academic dishonesty are subject to disciplinary proceedings.
 
 Campus and Residence Hall Solicitations. "Solicitations," as defined by the Rules and Regulations of the Board of Regents of The University of Texas System, means the sale, lease, rental of any property product, merchandise, publication, or service, whether for immediate or future delivery; an oral statement or the distribution or display of printed material, merchandise or product that is designed to encourage the purchase, use or rental of any property, product, merchandise, publication, or service; the oral or written appeal or request to join an organization other than a registered student, faculty or staff organization; the receipt of or request for any gift or contribution; and/or the request to support or oppose or to vote for or against a candidate, issue, or proposition appearing on the ballot at any election pursuant to state or federal law or local ordinances. All solicitations on the UT Dallas campus must conform to the Regents' Rules, copies of which are available in the offices of the President, Executive Vice President and Provost, Vice Presidents, and Deans and in numerous other administrative offices and the library.
 Hazing. Hazing, submission to hazing, or failure to report first-hand knowledge of the planning or occurrence of specific hazing incidents is prohibited by state law and, in addition to disciplinary actions, is punishable by fines up to $10,000 and confinement in county jail for up to two years. Moreover, any hazing offense that causes the death of another person is a state jail felony. Hazing is defined by state law as, "... any intentional, knowing, or reckless act, occurring on or off the campus of an educational institution, by one person alone or acting with others, directed against a student, that endangers the mental or physical health or safety of a student for the purpose of pledging, being initiated into, affiliating with, holding office in, or maintaining membership in an organization." Any person who reports a specific hazing incident involving a student to the Dean of Students is immune from civil or criminal liability that he/she might otherwise incur as a result of the report.  Any persons who have further questions about hazing or activities that may be considered hazing should call the Dean of Students' office at (972) 883-6391.
 Copyrighted Material. Unauthorized distribution of copyrighted material may subject students to civil and criminal penalties. All UT Dallas syllabi are required to include, whether in text or a hyperlink, student conduct policies including a copyright notice. This notice directs students to UT Dallas' Policy Regarding Photocopying Copyrighted Materials (UTDPP1043) and UT System's copyright website. Further, the Director of Information Security is identified as the University's contact for copyright questions or concerns. See www.utdallas.edu/copyright.
 Other Disciplinary Situations. Any student organization as a group is subject to disciplinary action or revocation of registration as a student organization for violation of a rule or regulation of The University of Texas System or The University of Texas at Dallas.
 

 

 
 B. Grievance Procedures
 The University of Texas at Dallas is committed to a policy of nondiscrimination on the basis of age, color, disability, gender, race, religion, sexual orientation, national origin, or veteran status in its provision of services, activities, and programs, and in its treatment of students. Students seeking further information about this policy or related complaint procedures for alleged discrimination or sexual harassment should contact the Dean of Students. The dean will follow the procedures for student grievances that are found in UTDSP5005, Student Grievances Policy.
 Sexual harassment is a form of sex discrimination. Such harassment is defined as unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favors, and other verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature. Suggestions that academic or employment reprisals or rewards will follow the refusal or granting of sexual favors also constitute sexual harassment. The full text of the University's "Sexual Harassment Policy and Procedure" may be found in the Administrative Policies and Procedures Manual, Section D, D11-115.0.
 Any student who perceives that he or she has been subject to any form of discrimination as defined above may file a written complaint with the Dean of Students using the following procedures:
 
 The complaint must contain the nature of the alleged discrimination, the date on which the alleged discrimination occurred, and other appropriate information as required by the dean.
 The dean will refer all complaints that name an employee of the university (including graduate assistants and other student employees) as the offender to the Office of Human Resources for investigation and resolution. When the nature of the complaint is discrimination on the basis of disability, the dean will refer the grievance or complaint to the ADA Coordinator who will investigate the complaint under the procedures given in the Administrative Policies and Procedures Manual, Vol. IIA, Section D, page D11-195.0, Americans with Disabilities Act Grievance Policy.
 With the exceptions noted in subsection (2) above, the student discipline procedure outlined in UTDSP5003 Student Discipline and Conduct will be utilized for complaints that name a student as an alleged offender. Such complaints will be investigated by the dean.
 As a result of the investigation, the dean will, on the basis of the information presented, determine: a) that the charges of discrimination are without basis, b) that further investigation is required, c) that campus action shall be initiated to alleviate a discriminatory situation, or d) that a hearing will be held.
 
 

 
 C. Academic Grievances
 Procedures for student grievances are found in university policy UTDSP5005. In attempting to resolve any student grievance regarding grades, evaluations, or other fulfillments of academic responsibility, it is the obligation of the student first to make a serious effort to resolve the matter with the instructor, supervisor, administrator, or committee with whom the grievance originated (hereafter called "the respondent") Individual faculty members retain primary responsibility for assigning grades and evaluations.
 PROCEDURES TO APPEAL ACADEMIC DECISIONS
 (a) The appeal procedures defined in this section apply to an unresolved grievance concerning some aspect of the student's academic standing at UT Dallas. The intent is to address the grievance of the student in a prompt and orderly fashion. A grievance means a dispute concerning some aspect of the student's academic standing arising from an administrative or faculty decision that the student regards as incorrect or unjust. Grievances include, but are not limited to, disputes over grades, application of degree plan, graduation/degree program requirements, and thesis and dissertation committee and/or adviser actions or decisions. Grievances, as defined in this section, do not include the right to appeal the termination of employment of a teaching assistant or research assistant during the term of the student's appointment. That appeal process is defined and described in UT Dallas Policy PP1075 University Policies Related to Graduate Student Teaching Assistants and Graduate Student Research Assistants.
 (b) A grievance regarding academic concerns will be considered in the following manner:
 
 Initial Consideration of Grievance In attempting to resolve any student grievance falling within the scope of this policy, it is the obligation of the student first to make a serious and prompt effort to resolve the matter through discussion with the instructor, supervisor, administrator, or committee chair with whom the grievance originated (hereafter called "the respondent.") within sixty (60) calendar days after the date on which the decision was first rendered.
 Appeal to the Department/Program Head If the matter cannot be resolved in discussions between the student and the respondent, the student grievant can submit a written appeal to the respondent's department/program head with a copy to the respondent clearly specifying the basis of the appeal and stating the remedies the student is seeking. This written appeal MUST be submitted no later than the sixty-fifth day after the date on which the decision in dispute was first rendered by the respondent. Within ten business days while classes are in session, the respondent will provide both the student and the department/program head with a written response. The department/program head will have 10 business days to review all submissions and provide a written response to the student and respondent (an extension to this timeline may be granted by the school dean for good cause). In determining the validity of the grievance, the department head should be guided by the principle that the burden is on the grievant to show that the decision is arbitrary and capricious. If the department/program head decides that the grievance be granted, he/she will also provide a decision on how to resolve the dispute.
 Academic Appeals Panel If the student is dissatisfied with the decision of the department/program head, the student may submit a written appeal via email or hard copy, within ten business days of the date the decision was sent, to the dean of the school hosting the course, comprehensive or oral examination with a copy to the department/program head (an extension to this timeline may be granted by the dean for good cause). The written appeal by the student to the school dean must clearly state the reasons for the appeal and remedy sought. The dean will appoint an appeals panel. The appeals panel composition will consist of an associate dean of the school in which the grievance originated, acting as chair, two faculty members from the school in which the grievance originated, an associate dean from another school, and a student. The student selected to serve on the panel will be an undergraduate when the grievance is from an undergraduate student and will be a graduate student when the grievance is from a graduate student. The academic panel will review all submissions, obtain additional information and opinions if desired, and provide the student with a written response within twenty business days while classes are in session of the receipt of the student's appeal to the school dean. The appropriate dean of graduate or undergraduate studies will receive a copy of the panel's response. The findings and recommendation of the appeals panel are final.
 
 (c) All parties involved in an academic appeal will be informed about the final disposition of the appeal. Copies of these rules and regulations are available to students in the Office of the Dean of Students where staff are available to assist students in interpreting the rules and regulations.
 

 
 D. Privacy Act: Student Records
 
 
 The student's university record is established and maintained to provide both the student and the university with information regarding the student's progress while enrolled at the university. Any student enrolled in the university has access to and may inspect those records relating to his or her academic progress, to the extent allowed by the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act and the Texas Public Information Act. The record is considered to be confidential and may be released only within the limitations clearly defined by university regulations and state and federal statutes or with the student's written permission.
 The university may release directory information which is defined as public information and includes the student's name, local and permanent address, telephone number, E-mail address, date and place of birth, major field of study, participation in officially recognized activities and sports, photographs, weight and height of members of athletic teams, dates of attendance, degrees, awards and honors received, and the most recent educational agency or institution attended by the student, classification, and expected date of graduation. This information may be printed in various publications of the university such as the student directory, honors list, athletic programs, list of graduating students, or similar documents. Additionally, this information may be released upon request. A student may request that the university not release directory information by completing the appropriate forms during registration. The student must complete the forms each semester.
 Student records which the university maintains include official university academic and personal records relating to scholastic, disciplinary and fiscal matters as well as records maintained by university agencies and agencies providing services sought voluntarily by students. Students may challenge the contents of educational records and request corrections to inaccurate or misleading information. Any request for correction or explanation of record contents should be presented in writing to the person in charge of the office where the record is maintained.
 Detailed information pertaining to the content of and handling of student records is contained in the university policy, Rules on Student Services and Activities of the university's Handbook of Operating Procedures. Students wishing more information about their rights established under the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act should contact the Office of the Registrar, Student Services Building, (972) 883-2342.
 The Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act does not extend to research papers and theses authored by students; these documents are available to interested members of the public.
 

 

 
 E. Clery Act
 In compliance with the Student-Right-to-Know and Campus Security Act, The University of Texas at Dallas collects specified information on campus crime statistics, campus security policies, and institutional completion or graduation rates. The university publishes an annual report of campus security policies and crime statistics and distributes copies during registration.
 

 
 F. Emergency Response, Fire Safety, and Security
 Emergency Response: In the event of an emergency or natural disaster the campus community will be notified as prominently as possible through several means of communication. This includes Campus Alert E-mail, the University's website, campus and local media, text-messaging, Fire Alarm Systems, Indoor Warning System and Outdoor Warning System. For policies and procedures, and reporting requirements please visit www.utdallas.edu/ehs/emergency.
 Fire Safety: The entire UT Dallas campus fire alarm system is monitored 24-7 through a SimplexGrinnell Information management system. This IMS operates on a fiber optic loop connected to every building fire panel on the Richardson campus. All 30 of UT Dallas' buildings have primary reporting to the University Police and secondary reporting to EHS and EMS. For policies and procedures please visit www.utdallas.edu/ehs/firelifesafety.
 Gang-free Zones: Premises owned, rented or leaded by The University of Texas at Dallas, and areas within 1,000 feet of the premises are "gang-free" zones. Certain criminal offenses, including those involving gang-related crimes, will be enhanced to the next highest category of offense if committed in a gang-free zone by an individual 17 years or older. See Texas Penal Code, Section 71.028.
 Missing Student Notification: The purpose of the UT Dallas Missing Persons Policy is to establish procedures for the University's response to reports of missing students as required by the Higher Education Opportunity Act of 2008. This policy applies to students who reside in on-campus housing. For purposes of this policy, a student may be considered a "missing person" when he or she is absent from the University for more than 24 hours without any known reason. A student may also be deemed missing when his/her absence is contrary to his/her usual pattern of behavior and/or unusual circumstances may have caused the absence. Such circumstances could include, but not be limited to, a report or suspicion that the missing person may be the victim of foul play, has expressed suicidal thoughts, is drug dependent, or has been with persons who may endanger the student's welfare.
 All residential students will have the opportunity to designate a confidential contact to be notified by the University no more than 24 hours after the student is determined missing. Instructions will be provided on how to register that person's contact information. Residential students' contact information will be registered confidentially, will be accessible only to authorized UT Dallas officials, and may not be disclosed except to law enforcement personnel in furtherance of a missing person investigation.
 All reports of missing students must be directed to the UT Dallas Police Department, which shall investigate each report and make a determination about whether the student is missing. In addition, no later than 24 hours after a student is determined missing, UT Dallas will notify the Richardson Police Department, unless the Richardson Police Department was the entity that determined the student to be missing. At that time, if the missing student is under the age of 18 and not emancipated, UT Dallas will also notify the student's custodial parent or guardian.
 

 
 G. Use of Facilities
 Pursuant to the general authority of Texas Education Code Chapter 65, and the specific authority of Texas Education Code Chapter 51, the Board of Regents of The University of Texas System, in Series 80101-80110 of the Rules and Regulations, promulgates rules relating to the use of buildings, grounds, and facilities for purposes other than programs and activities related to the role and mission of the UT System and the component institutions.
 The property, buildings, or facilities owned or controlled by the UT System or UT Dallas are not open for assembly, speech, or other activities as are the public streets, sidewalks, and parks. The responsibility of the Board of Regents to operate and maintain an effective and efficient system of institutions of higher education requires that the time, place, and manner of assembly, speech, and other activities on the grounds and in the buildings and facilities of the UT System or UT Dallas be regulated.
 Complete copies of the regental and institutional rules and regulations are available to students in the Office of the Dean of Students where staff members are available to assist students in interpreting the rules.
 



Updated: 2019-08-09 13:08:02 v2.adf25ebugz












2013 Graduate Catalog

General Information

About the 2013 Graduate Catalog
About UT Dallas
University Officers
UT System Regents
Contact Information
Faculty Roster
Search 2013 Graduate Catalog

Graduate Programs

Arts and Humanities

ATEC

Arts and Technology Program
Arts and Technology (MA)
Arts and Technology (MFA)
Arts and Technology (PhD)

EMAC

Emerging Media and Communication Program
Emerging Media and Communication (MA)

History

History Program
History (MA)

Humanities

Humanities Program
Humanities (MA)
Humanities (PhD)
Certificate in Holocaust Studies

Latin American Studies

Latin American Studies Program
Latin American Studies (MA)


Behavioral and Brain Sciences

Applied Cognition and Neuroscience

Applied Cognition and Neuroscience Program
Applied Cognition and Neuroscience (MS)

Communication Disorders

Communication Disorders Program
Communication Disorders (MS)

Human Development and Early Childhood Disorders

Human Development and Early Childhood Disorders Program
Human Development and Early Childhood Disorders (MS)

Psychological Sciences

Psychological Sciences Program
Psychological Sciences (MS)

Audiology Program

Audiology Program
Audiology (AuD)

BBS Doctoral Programs

Cognition and Neuroscience (PhD)
Communication Sciences and Disorders (PhD)
Psychological Sciences (PhD)


Engineering and Computer Science

Bioengineering

Department of Bioengineering
Biomedical Engineering (MS)
Biomedical Engineering (PhD)

Computer Engineering

Computer Engineering Program
Computer Engineering (MS)
Computer Engineering (PhD)

Computer Science

Department of Computer Science
Computer Science (MS)
Computer Science - Software Engineering (MSCS)
Computer Science (PhD)
Software Engineering (PhD)

Electrical Engineering

Department of Electrical Engineering
Electrical Engineering (MS)
Electrical Engineering (PhD)
Certificate in Infrared Technology

Materials Science and Engineering

Department of Materials Science and Engineering
Materials Science and Engineering (MS)
Materials Science and Engineering (PhD)

Mechanical Engineering

Department of Mechanical Engineering
Mechanical Engineering (MS)
Mechanical Engineering (PhD)

Systems Engineering

Department of Systems Engineering
Systems Engineering (MS-SEM)

Telecommunications Engineering

Telecommunications Engineering Program
Telecommunications Engineering (MS)
Telecommunications Engineering (PhD)

Engineering and Management Graduate Degrees

Engineering and Management Graduate Degrees
Engineering and Management Graduate Degrees (MSEE+MBA)
Engineering and Management Graduate Degrees (MSEE+MS/MA)

Geospatial Information Sciences

Geospatial Information Sciences Program
Geospatial Information Sciences (PhD)

Industrial Practice Programs

Industrial Practice Programs (IPP)


Economic, Political and Policy Sciences

Criminology

Criminology (PhD)
Criminology (MS)
Criminology Online (MS)
Justice Administration and Leadership (MS)

Economics

Economics (PhD)
Economics (MS)

Geospatial Information Sciences

Geospatial Information Sciences (PhD)
Geospatial Information Sciences (MS)

Political Science

Political Science (PhD)
Political Science (MA)
Political Science - Constitutional Law Studies (MA)
Political Science - Legislative Studies (MA)

Public Affairs

Public Affairs (PhD)
Public Affairs (MPA)

Public Policy and Political Economy

Public Policy and Political Economy (PhD)
International Political Economy (MS)
Master of Public Policy (MPP)

Sociology

Applied Sociology (MS)

EPPS Certificate Programs

About EPPS Certificate Programs
Certificate in City Planning
Certificate in Economic and Demographic Data Analysis
Certificate in Evaluation Research
Certificate in Geographic Information Systems (GIS)
Certificate in Geospatial Intelligence (GeoInt)
Certificate in Local Government Management
Certificate in Nonprofit Management
Certificate in Remote Sensing


Interdisciplinary Studies

Post-Baccalaureate Program for Teacher Certification

Jindal School of Management

Accounting (MS)
Business Administration (MBA)
Finance (MS)
Healthcare Management (MS)
Information Technology and Management (MS)
Innovation and Entrepreneurship (MS)
International Management Studies (MS)
Management and Administrative Sciences (MS)
Marketing (MS)
Supply Chain Management (MS)
Systems Engineering and Management (MS)
Certificate in Systems Engineering and Management
Engineering and Management Graduate Degrees (MSEE+MBA/MS/MA)
JSOM Doctoral Programs
International Management Studies (PhD)
Management Science (PhD)
Executive Education Programs

Executive MBA (EMBA)
Global Leadership MBA (GLEMBA)
Project Management (Cert/MS-MAS/EMBA)
Supply Chain Management (Cert/MS/EMBA)
Healthcare Management for Physicians (MS)
Healthcare Management for Physicians (MS/EMBA)
Executive and Professional Coaching (Cert/MS)
Systems Engineering and Management (MS-SEM/Cert)
Systems Engineering and Management (MS-SEM+GLEMBA)


Natural Science and Mathematics

Actuarial Science

Actuarial Science Program
Actuarial Science (MS)

Chemistry

Department of Chemistry
Chemistry (MS)
Chemistry (PhD)

Geosciences

Department of Geosciences
Certificate in Remote Sensing
Geosciences (MS)
Geospatial Information Sciences (MS)
Geosciences (PhD)
Geospatial Information Sciences (PhD)

Mathematical Sciences

Department of Mathematical Sciences
Actuarial Science (MS)
Mathematics (MS)
Applied Mathematics Specialization (MS)
Engineering Mathematics Specialization (MS)
Mathematics Specialization (MS)
Statistics Specialization (MS)
Bioinformatics and Computational Biology (MS)
Applied Mathematics Specialization (PhD)
Statistics Specialization (PhD)

Molecular and Cell Biology

Department of Molecular and Cell Biology
Molecular and Cell Biology (MS)
Bioinformatics and Computational Biology (MS)
Molecular and Cell Biology (PhD)

Physics

Department of Physics
Physics (MS)
Physics (PhD)

Science and Mathematics Education

Science/Mathematics Education Program
Teaching in Science Education (MAT)
Teaching in Mathematics Education (MAT)

Interdisciplinary Programs

Biotechnology (MS)
Bioinformatics and Computational Biology (MS)
Geospatial Information Sciences (PhD)



Graduate Courses

Graduate Courses by Subject

Accounting (ACCT) - Course Descriptions
Applied Cognition and Neuroscience (ACN) - Course Descriptions
Actuarial Science (ACTS) - Course Descriptions
Arts and Technology (ATEC) - Course Descriptions
Audiology (AUD) - Course Descriptions
Biology (BIOL) - Course Descriptions
Biomedical Engineering (BMEN) - Course Descriptions
Business Policy and Strategy (BPS) - Course Descriptions
Computer Engineering (CE) - Course Descriptions
Chemistry (CHEM) - Course Descriptions
Communication Disorders (COMD) - Course Descriptions
Criminology (CRIM) - Course Descriptions
Computer Science (CS) - Course Descriptions
Economics (ECON) - Course Descriptions
Engineering and Computer Science COOP (ECSC) - Course Descriptions
Education (ED) - Course Descriptions
Electrical Engineering: Biomedical Applications of Electrical Engineering (EEBM) - Course Descriptions
Electrical Engineering: Circuits and Systems (EECT) - Course Descriptions
Electrical Engineering: Digital Systems (EEDG) - Course Descriptions
Electrical Engineering - Graduate (EEGR) - Course Descriptions
Electrical Engineering: Solid State Devices & Micro Systems Fabrication (EEMF) - Course Descriptions
Electrical Engineering: Optical Devices, Materials & Systems (EEOP) - Course Descriptions
Electrical Engineering: Power Electronics and Energy Systems (EEPE) - Course Descriptions
Electrical Engineering: RF & Microwave Engineering (EERF) - Course Descriptions
Electrical Engineering: Signal Processing & Communications (EESC) - Course Descriptions
Emerging Media and Communication (EMAC) - Course Descriptions
Engineering (ENGR) - Course Descriptions
Innovation and Entrepreneurship (ENTP) - Course Descriptions
Economic, Political and Policy Sciences (EPPS) - Course Descriptions
Finance (FIN) - Course Descriptions
Geosciences (GEOS) - Course Descriptions
Geospatial Information Sciences (GISC) - Course Descriptions
Human Development and Communication Sciences (HCS) - Course Descriptions
Human  Development and Early Childhood Disorders (HDCD) - Course Descriptions
History (HIST) - Course Descriptions
Healthcare Administration (HMGT) - Course Descriptions
Humanities - Aesthetic Studies (HUAS) - Course Descriptions
Humanities - Education (HUED) - Course Descriptions
Humanities - History of Ideas (HUHI) - Course Descriptions
Humanities (HUMA) - Course Descriptions
Humanities - Studies in Literature (HUSL) - Course Descriptions
International Management Studies (IMS) - Course Descriptions
International Political Economy (IPEC) - Course Descriptions
Latin American Studies (LATS) - Course Descriptions
Master-Interdisciplinary Studies (MAIS) - Course Descriptions
Management and Administrative Sciences (MAS) - Course Descriptions
Mathematical Science (MATH) - Course Descriptions
Mechanical Engineering (MECH) - Course Descriptions
Managerial Economics (MECO) - Course Descriptions
Management Information Systems (MIS) - Course Descriptions
Marketing Management (MKT) - Course Descriptions
Materials Sciences and Engineering (MSEN) - Course Descriptions
Math Education (MTHE) - Course Descriptions
Organizational Behavior (OB) - Course Descriptions
Operations Research (OPRE) - Course Descriptions
Public Affairs/Administration (PA) - Course Descriptions
Physics (PHYS) - Course Descriptions
Political Economy (POEC) - Course Descriptions
Political Science (PSCI) - Course Descriptions
Psychology (PSYC) - Course Descriptions
Real Estate (REAL) - Course Descriptions
Science Education (SCE) - Course Descriptions
Science (SCI) - Course Descriptions
Software Engineering (SE) - Course Descriptions
Science Math Ecucation (SMED) - Course Descriptions
Sociology (SOC) - Course Descriptions
Statistics (STAT) - Course Descriptions
Systems Engineering (SYSE) - Course Descriptions
Systems Engineering and Management (SYSM) - Course Descriptions
Telecommunications Engineering (TE) - Course Descriptions

Graduate Courses by School

Graduate Admission

About Admission
Application Fees and Deadlines
List of Registration and Enrollment Requirements
Registration and Enrollment Requirements

Tuition and Financial Aid

About Tuition and Fees
Tuition Refund
Other User Fees
Student Financial Aid
Types of Financial Aid
Academic Common Market

Policies and Procedures

List of Graduate Policies

Program of Studies/Degree Plan
Change of Program
Transfer of Credit
General Degree Requirements
Required Semester Credit Hours
Required Grade Point Average
Registration Requirements
Time Limits
Additional Master's Degrees
Supervising Committee for Thesis and Dissertation
Admission to Doctoral Candidacy
Doctoral Dissertation
Final Oral Examination for Doctoral Candidates
Required Copies of Dissertation and Thesis
Intellectual Property Rights
FERPA
Graduation under a Particular Catalog

Policy on Procedures for Completing a Graduate Degree

University Resources

List of Resources

General Resources
Health Resources
Student Complaint Resources


Catalog Appendices

Appendix I - Rules, Regulations, and Statutory Requirements
Appendix II - Respective Responsibilities of Students and Faculty
Appendix III - Travel and Risk-Related Activities







The University of Texas at DallasUT Dallas ProvostCourseBookContact the Provost's Technology Group






(null clip target)













