



UT Dallas 2013 Undergraduate Catalog - The University of Texas at Dallas































Jump to content
Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Catalog Home 
Undergraduate Catalogs 


2022 Undergraduate Catalog2021 Undergraduate Catalog2020 Undergraduate Catalog2019 Undergraduate Catalog2018 Undergraduate Catalog2017 Undergraduate Catalog2016 Undergraduate Catalog


 
Graduate Catalogs 


2022 Graduate Catalog2021 Graduate Catalog2020 Graduate Catalog2019 Graduate Catalog2018 Graduate Catalog2017 Graduate Catalog2016 Graduate Catalog









UT Dallas 2013 Undergraduate Catalog
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Registration
Before registering for classes, all students entering a Texas university must receive a vaccination or booster (if the vaccination is five years old) against bacterial meningitis before enrollment in accordance with Texas Education Code, Section 51.9192 as of January 1, 2012.  Please contact the Office of the Registrar, 972-883-2342 or go to www.utdallas.edu/student/registrar for additional information.
Students may participate in a course only after officially registering and paying through the proper procedures. The Office of the Registrar officially notifies an instructor of the names of the students enrolled in a course utilizing the Orion class roster. Students will not receive credit for courses for which they are not registered.
Administrative Drop
An administrative drop may occur due to the following reasons:

The student has not satisfied the pre-requisites for the course.
The student has not satisfied probationary requirements resulting in suspension.
Judicial affairs request.
The student has not made appropriate tuition and fee payments.
The student's enrollment is in violation of academic policy.
The student was not admitted for the term in which they registered.

Auditing a Class
See the "Auditing Courses" section at catalog.utdallas.edu/2013/undergraduate/policies/course-policies#auditing.
Classification of Students
Freshmen and sophomores are lower-division students. Juniors and seniors are upper-division students.

Freshman: A student who has successfully completed fewer than 30 semester credit hours.
Sophomore: A student who has successfully completed 30-53 semester credit hours.
Junior: A student who has successfully completed 54-89 semester credit hours.
Senior: A student who has successfully completed 90 or more semester credit hours.

Concurrent Enrollment Tuition
A concurrent enrollment agreement is in place between The University of Texas at Dallas, The University of Texas at Arlington, and The University of Texas Southwestern Medical Branch. This agreement allows any student enrolled concurrently between these institutions to receive a waiver of certain fees per Texas Education Code 54.011. Students must be enrolled in at least one hour at their home institution to be considered concurrently enrolled. Students must apply for concurrent enrollment with The Office of the Registrar in the Student Services Building, first floor customer service area.
Dates for Registration
Registration dates are listed online in the Academic Calendar or Comet Calendar. All dates and formal procedures for registration and late registration are listed: www.utdallas.edu/student/registrar/lookup/dropadd.html.
Continuing students will receive an enrollment appointment to register during the early registration period. Early registration helps to ensure enrollment in classes needed to fulfill degree requirements. All freshmen, undeclared continuing students, and students who changed their major must meet with their academic advisor prior to registering for classes.
Newly admitted students for the semester will have an opportunity to register at orientation. All newly admitted students must meet with their academic advisor prior to registering for classes.
Deadlines for Adding or Dropping a Class
NOTE: Students should retain copies of all add and drop forms for at least one year following the end of the semester in which the student initiates a drop or add course action.
Deadlines vary during the shorter summer sessions. It is the student's responsibility to review the Comet Calendar or the online Academic Calendar for specific summer deadlines.
Deadlines for dropping a course are based upon the course and not the student. For example, when an undergraduate student takes a graduate course, the drop procedures for graduate courses take effect.
Add
Beginning the first (1st) day of class through the sixth (6th) class day, students may add a class without the instructor's or advisor's signature. However, students in the following categories must still meet with an academic advisor before adding classes:

Students newly admitted to The University of Texas at Dallas (including transfer students and freshmen),
Students without declared majors and those students who are not in good academic standing. Please see the Comet Calendar's academic section for specific deadlines.

Drop
Courses dropped on or before Census Day will not appear on the student's transcript.
Students may drop a class without any permission required until the end of business on Census Day.
After Census Day, permissions to drop are required from the school or college in which the student is admitted.
W Period
Through the sixth (6th) class week of a long semester, students may withdraw from courses by completing a drop form and having it signed by their academic advisor and course instructor. A grade of 'W' (withdrawn from course) will appear on the student's transcript.
WL Period
During the seventh (7th) through ninth (9th) class weeks of a long semester, students who submit a completed drop form will receive a grade of 'WL' (withdrawn late). The student must obtain the instructor's and advisor's signatures on the form.
After the ninth (9th) class week of a long semester, a student may only withdraw from a class for non-academic reasons.
Dropping and Withdrawing
The University makes a distinction between dropping a class prior to the 12th class day (Census Day - Fall/Spring), an academic action that is not posted to the student's permanent record, and withdrawing from a class (following Census Day) at which point the academic action becomes a part of the student's transcript.
Limitations
Texas law mandates that a student who enrolls in a Texas public institution as a first-time freshman in fall 2007 or later, not be allowed to withdraw from more than six courses over his or her entire undergraduate career including all courses taken at any Texas public institution of higher education. Legislatively-mandated reasons for withdrawing from a class that do not count toward the six-class limit include, among others, a severe illness or other debilitating condition that affects the student's ability to complete the course; the student's need to care for a sick, injured, or needy person if the care affects the student's ability to complete the course; the death of the student's family member or of a person considered to have a sufficiently close relationship to the student; the active duty service as a member of the Texas National Guard or the armed forces of the United States of the student, a family member, or a person considered to have a sufficiently close relationship to the student; or a change in the student's work schedule that is beyond the control of the student and that affects the student's ability to complete the course.
The University has an appeal process by which students can request exemption for a specific withdraw (See "Non-academic Withdrawals" at catalog.utdallas.edu/2013/undergraduate/policies/registration#nonacademic-withdrawal. Students should contact the Office of Undergraduate Education for more information.
As always, students may drop classes without penalty prior to the 12th class day (Census Day) in any semester.
Students who drop all courses in a given semester must officially withdraw from the University. (See "Withdrawal/Resignation from the University" at catalog.utdallas.edu/2013/undergraduate/policies/registration#university-withdrawal).
Students who habitually drop a significant fraction of their schedules may lose the right to drop or may be dismissed from the University for failure to make adequate academic progress (See "Academic Progress" at catalog.utdallas.edu/2013/undergraduate/policies/academic#progress).
Drop Appeal Procedures
Students, who believe they have dropped a course, but receive a grade for that course at the end of the semester, have one calendar year in which to provide documented proof of the processed drop to the Dean of Undergraduate Education to appeal the posted grade.
In Absentia Registration
In absentia registration provides an opportunity for a degree candidate to register for the semester in which the degree is to be completed without taking formal coursework. In absentia registration is permissible for a degree candidate who is removing an incomplete grade (I) or for a degree candidate who has left the University and is transferring authorized and approved credit to qualify for completion of a degree. In absentia registration requires a nonrefundable/nontransferable fee.
Non-academic Withdrawals
To withdraw from a course for non-academic reasons, students must complete a written petition detailing the nature of the request and include supporting documentation. Grounds on which such requests may be granted include but are not limited to documented serious medical conditions and exigent family circumstances.
Non-academic withdrawal petitions may be submitted at any time during the semester. Non-academic withdrawal petitions are to be obtained from the Undergraduate Student Advising Office. The Director of Academic Advising will distribute the petition to a committee whose members will independently review the petition and either approve or deny the request to withdraw. The committee consists of three academic advisors, none of whom is from the school of the student petitioning. The Assistant Dean of Undergraduate Education will inform the student of the outcome. Special procedures apply to non-academic withdrawals for medical/mental health issues, as detailed more fully below.
NOTE: It is extremely important that students petitioning to withdraw from a class for non-academic reasons continue to attend and participate in the class, if possible, until the petition request is resolved. If the petition is approved, the student will receive a withdrawal designation commensurate with the request (see "Grading Scale" in "Academic Policies and Procedures") for the course. If the petition is denied, the student will receive the grade earned in the course.
In general, a request for non-academic withdrawal must apply to all courses in which a student is enrolled. Selective withdrawal will be permitted only under exceptional circumstances and by appeal to the Dean of Undergraduate Education. Petition for selective withdrawal can only be submitted after a request for non-academic withdrawal has been approved by the committee.
Medical and/or Mental Health Withdrawal from the University
Students experiencing a significant and unforeseeable medical or mental health condition, compromising the student's ability to effectively participate in their educational program, may request withdrawal from classes or, in rare circumstances, reduce their course loads at the University, without unnecessary academic penalty.
A medical withdrawal from the University can be granted only for the current or immediately preceding semester.  Only in rare cases may students petition for a medical withdrawal for an earlier semester.
Students should refer to the Academic Calendar for the established withdrawal and drop dates. A student granted medical withdrawal or course load reduction will be assigned a grade of 'WI' for the affected courses.  Students will be limited to one medical withdrawal during their academic career at UT Dallas, unless given special permission by the Dean of Undergraduate Education.
Medical Withdrawal requests must be submitted in writing using the same petition as the request for non-academic withdrawal referenced in the first paragraph of this policy. Such requests must be accompanied by a recent evaluation supported through documentation from a licensed doctor, other licensed medical provider (e.g. physician's assistant), or mental health professional. Hospitalization records from a recent admission, if relevant, should also accompany any application. The committee will review the request and any supporting documentation provided by the student, to determine whether the medical or mental health issues adversely affecting the student's ability to function academically are/were substantial enough to warrant the student's withdrawal under this policy. Upon that review, and not later than one month after receiving a completed petition, the committee will provide a written decision. The student will be notified of the final determination in writing in a manner consistent with the policies and procedures established by the Office of Undergraduate Education.
Refunds following Withdrawal
Any refund of tuition and/or fees will follow the University's Refund Policy for Withdrawal or Dropped Courses (see catalog.utdallas.edu/2013/undergraduate/tuition-and-financial-aid/tuition-refund) at the time of the effective date of the withdrawal. The Dean of Undergraduate Education will determine the effective date of the withdrawal.
Appeal of a Denied Petition for Non-Academic Withdrawal
Students whose non-academic withdrawal petitions are denied may appeal in writing to the Office of Undergraduate Education. All appeals will go to the Dean of Undergraduate Education for review. The Dean's decision shall be final.
Request to Return Following a Medical/Mental Health Withdrawal
Students who are granted medical withdrawals and wish to return to UT Dallas must submit their request for re-enrollment in writing to the Dean of Undergraduate Education or designee. The Medical Readmission Committee (Associate Dean of Students, Director of Counseling Center, Director of Student Health Center, and Assistant Dean of Undergraduate Education) via the Office for Undergraduate Education will assess the information provided by the student and render a decision regarding readmission. Such requests must be supported by a current release of information form from the licensed doctor, other licensed medical provider (e.g. physician's assistant), or mental health professional providing their care. The committee will evaluate the information provided by the primary provider to ensure that it supports the student's re-enrollment, and will forward a written decision to the Dean of Undergraduate Education and/or their designee. The Dean and/or their designee will inform the student, in writing, of the committee's decision as to whether the student's return is appropriate. In addition, before being allowed to re-enroll, students may be required to correspond with the Director of the respective service in order to forecast any possible needs and to facilitate maximizing the student's potential for a successful return.
In the event of denial of readmission, the student may appeal to the Dean of Undergraduate Education. A written appeal (a letter from the student explaining the circumstances) must be received in the Office of Undergraduate Education within 10 working days of receipt of notification of denial of readmission. The Dean's (or designee's) decision is final.
Visiting UT System Students Program
The Visiting UT System Students Program is designed to allow upper-level and graduate or professional students enrolled in an institution of the UT System to take courses or engage in research at another institution within the UT System during a regular semester or summer session. Each campus must appoint an individual designated to coordinate the visiting student program at both the home and host institution. Every campus has the responsibility to determine the academic qualifications necessary for their students to participate in the visiting program. Approval of a student's proposed visitation will be contingent upon space and desired courses being readily available in the proposed visitation program and, for participation in a research laboratory, upon approval of the director of the laboratory (Regent's Rules 50701).
Withdrawal/Resignation from the University
A student who wishes to withdraw entirely from the University must obtain a "Registration, Drop/Add and Withdrawal Form" at www.utdallas.edu/student/registrar/forms. The student must complete the appropriate section of the form to withdraw from the University. The student submits the completed "Registration, Drop/Add and Withdrawal Form" in person to The Office of the Registrar in the Student Services Building, first floor customer service area. Students must withdraw on or before the last 'WL' withdrawal day for that semester.
Updated: 2019-08-09 13:10:44 v3.ce6560bugz












2013 Undergraduate Catalog

General Information

About the 2013 Catalog
About UT Dallas
University Officers
UT System Regents
Contact Information
Faculty Roster
Search 2013 Undergraduate Catalog

Undergraduate Programs

Arts and Humanities

Art and Performance
ATEC
EMAC
Historical Studies
Literary Studies

Behavioral and Brain Sciences

Child Learning and Development
Cognitive Science
Neuroscience
Psychology
Speech-Language Pathology and Audiology

Economic, Political and Policy Sciences

Criminology
Criminology and Biology
Economics
Economics and Finance
Geospatial Information Sciences
International Political Economy
Political Science
Public Affairs
Sociology

Engineering and Computer Science

Biomedical Engineering
Computer Engineering
Computer Science
Electrical Engineering
Mechanical Engineering
Software Engineering
Telecommunications Engineering

Interdisciplinary Studies

American Studies
Healthcare Studies
Interdisciplinary Studies

Jindal School of Management

Accounting
Business Administration
Business Administration and Biology
Business Administration and Molecular Biology
Finance
Finance and Economics
Global Business
Management Information Systems
Marketing
Supply Chain Management

Natural Science and Mathematics

Actuarial Science
Biochemistry
Biology
Biology and Business Administration
Biology and Criminology
Chemistry
Geosciences
Mathematics
Molecular Biology
Molecular Biology and Business Administration
Physics
Biomedical Sciences (Cert)

Teacher Certification

Undergraduate Courses

Undergraduate Courses by Subject
Undergraduate Courses by School
Undergraduate Interdisciplinary Courses
Undergraduate Developmental Courses

Undergraduate Admission

About Admission
Application Fees and Deadlines
Freshman Admission
International Student Admission
Readmission
Special Admissions
Transfer Student Admissions

Undergraduate Curriculum

About Curriculum
Core Curriculum
Honors Programs
Other Degree Requirements

Tuition and Financial Aid

About Tuition and Financial Aid
Excessive Undergraduate Hours
Refund of Tuition and Fees
Other User Fees
Financial Aid
Types of Financial Aid

Policies and Procedures

List of Undergraduate Policies

Academic
Admission
Change of Address
Correspondence - Email
Courses
Degree Plans
Disciplinary Actions
FERPA
Graduate Courses
Graduation
International Education
Military Service
Registration
Religious Holy Days
Student Travel


University Resources

List of Resources

General Resources
Health Resources
Professional Resources
Student Complaint Resources


Catalog Appendices

Appendix I - Rules, Regulations, and Statutory Requirements
Appendix II - Transfer of Lower-Division Course Credit







The University of Texas at DallasUT Dallas ProvostCourseBookContact the Provost's Technology Group






(null clip target)













