



Other User Fees for Courses and Services - Tuition and Financial Aid - UT Dallas 2021 Graduate Catalog - The University of Texas at Dallas































Jump to content
Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Catalog Home 
Undergraduate Catalogs 


2022 Undergraduate Catalog2021 Undergraduate Catalog2020 Undergraduate Catalog2019 Undergraduate Catalog2018 Undergraduate Catalog2017 Undergraduate Catalog2016 Undergraduate Catalog


 
Graduate Catalogs 


2022 Graduate Catalog2021 Graduate Catalog2020 Graduate Catalog2019 Graduate Catalog2018 Graduate Catalog2017 Graduate Catalog2016 Graduate Catalog









UT Dallas 2021 Graduate Catalog
Tuition and Financial Aid
Other User Fees for Courses and Services*
* The following information is not intended to be comprehensive and is subject to change. Tuition and fees are subject to change by legislative or regental action, and changes become effective on the date of enactment. The Texas Legislature does not set the specific amount for any particular student fee. The student fees assessed below are authorized by state statute; however, the specific fee amounts and the determination to increase fees are made by the University administration and The University of Texas System Board of Regents. Fees can be found on the Bursar Office website for each term.
 
Application Fee: A nonrefundable application fee of $50.00 is required of all students applying for admission to The University of Texas at Dallas during the regular application period. If a student submits an application after the application deadline but prior to the documentation deadline, the application fee is $125.00 in order to process the application for a decision in time to register for classes. An additional $50.00 international document evaluation fee is required for those who have educational documents from countries other than the United States. Please refer to the Office of Admission and Enrollment website for application deadlines.
Application Fee for Study Abroad: Students applying to study abroad will be charged a $75.00 application fee.
Audit Fee: Students at The University of Texas at Dallas may, with the approval of the instructor and of the Office of the Registrar, audit courses. Auditing grants only the privilege of hearing and observing and does not grant credit. When approval has been granted, the applicant pays a fee of $100.00 per course. A student may withdraw from an audit course, but the fee will not be refunded. Persons 65 or over are permitted to audit without paying a fee. They must, however, qualify otherwise (see "Auditing Courses" in this catalog), complete the audit form, and have the consent of the instructor. Audit registration is permitted only during the late registration period of each semester or term.
Change of Major Fee: There is a $50.00 fee for students changing majors more than two times in an academic career.
Collin Higher Education Center Fee: Courses offered at Collin Higher Education Center are charged an $80.00 fee per semester credit hour.
Diploma Replacement or Duplicate Fee: A $10.00 fee is required to defray costs of preparing replacement or duplicate diplomas. An additional $25.00 will be charged to mail a diploma to a foreign address.
Distance Learning Fee: A fee per semester credit hour to enroll in distance education courses offered over the Internet. Please check the online fee schedules at bursar.utdallas.edu for fees rate. The rate varies based on the specific tuition plan.
Emergency Transcript (same day): A $20.00 processing fee in addition to the  Transcript Request Fee for expedited service of the official transcript.
Field Trip Fee: This fee is assessed to cover the costs of transportation, food, and/or lodging associated with a field trip. The amount of the fee varies depending on the destination and duration of the field trip. Every effort will be made to advise students of the field trip costs associated with a particular course at the time of registration, and the appropriate fee will be assessed at that time. Refund provisions do not apply to this fee.
In Absentia Registration Fee: A student who registers in absentia shall pay a nonrefundable/nontransferable registration fee of $100.00. (See definition of in absentia registration.
Installment Payment Plan Fee: A $25.00 fee to cover the costs of providing a payment option for students in full term fall or spring semester courses. The plan is also available for students enrolled in the 11-week summer semester.
Installment Plan Late Fee: A late payment fee of $30.00 for delinquent payment will be assessed if the second, third or fourth tuition installment is not paid by the published due date. In the event of non-payment, the total amount due shall accrue interest from the final payment deadline at the rate of ten percent (10%) per year until the note is paid in full.
Institutional Loan Delinquency Fee: A late charge of $30.00 per month ($90.00 maximum per note) will be assessed to students who do not repay their loans in accordance with the terms of the note.
Institutional Loan Origination Fee: A loan origination/administration fee of 1.25% of the total loan balance will be assessed and must be paid by the due date.
International Student Special Services Fee: The International Student Special Services Fee supports the ongoing success of non-immigrant students enrolled at UT Dallas. This fee supports the programs and services of the International Student Services Office (ISSO), including: immigration advising, certification of immigration benefits, cultural/social events, and educational/transitional programs. In addition, the fee supports federal reporting and certification of international student data in accord with federal regulations.
The mandatory $150.00 International Student Special Services fee is assessed at the time of registration each semester. Immigrant categories that are fee-exempt include: U.S. citizen, U.S. Permanent Resident, Conditional Resident, Temporary Protected Status, Refugee, Asylee, Public Interest Parolee, Temporary Residence-Amnesty, undocumented aliens and DACA recipients. Any student whose status changes officially to one of the exempt classifications is required to submit proof of that change to the UT Dallas Registrar's Office and International Student Services Office, and will not, subsequently, be assessed the fee. If the appropriate documentation is submitted prior to Census Day of a semester, the fee for that semester will be refunded based on the tuition refund schedule as published in the UT Dallas Academic Calendar.
International Travel Insurance Fee: A $30.00 fee per week of travel is charged to all students who travel internationally on UT Dallas authorized activities. This fee covers enrollment in the International Travel Insurance Plan. Enrollment in this insurance program is mandatory, regardless of any other insurance the students may have, including insurance possibly required by an affiliate study abroad program or a foreign government.
Late Course Add Fee: A $100.00 per course fee is assessed when a registered student adds a course after Census Day.
Late Graduation Fee: A $100.00 nonrefundable, non-transferable fee is assessed when an approved application for graduation is received after the deadline.
Late Registration (Payment) Fee: A nonrefundable charge of $100.00 with additional increments of $50.00 based on the number of days past the regular registration/payment deadline is required to defray costs associated with extending registration times.
Library Fines and Charges: Fines and fees for overdue library items are available on the Eugene McDermott Library's Circulation and Checkout Policies page. Copies of the fine schedule can also be obtained at the McDermott Library Circulation/Reserve Desk.
Orientation Fees: Transfer students will be charged the Transfer Student Orientation Fee of $50.00. International students will be assessed the International Student Orientation Fee of $50.00.
Parking Fees: A parking permit is required to park any motorized vehicle on campus. Any vehicle parked on campus that does not have a current parking permit associated with their parking account, as well as having the permit linked to their vehicle, will be subject to a parking citation. In compliance with the Texas Education Code 51.207 (b), The University of Texas at Dallas has procedures for enforcing State of Texas vehicle inspection laws for vehicles parking or driving on the campus of the institution. The law is as follows:
51.207 (b) This subsection applies only to a public institution of higher education campus that is located in whole or part in an area in which a motor vehicle registered in the area is required to undergo a vehicle emissions inspection under Subchapter F, Chapter 548, Transportation Code. The institution may not issue a permit to a student enrolled at the institution to park or drive a motor vehicle that is not registered in this state on institutional property unless the institution has provided written notice to the student concerning requirements for vehicle emissions inspections pursuant to Subchapter F, Chapter 548, Transportation Code.
Information regarding parking regulations and permit fees may be found at the Parking and Transportation website. Students may purchase the following permits online through the UT Dallas Online Store. Please be advised all UTD parking permits are virtual permits, which are registered to a student's license plate. Therefore no physical permit will be issued.
Permit Types:

Green: Allows students to park in campus green parking spaces.
Gold: Allows students to park in campus gold or green parking spaces.
Evening Orange: Allows students to park in orange spaces after 5 p.m. or gold and green parking spaces anytime.
Orange: Allows students to park in campus orange, gold, or green parking spaces.
Apartment: Allows students to park in Apartment parking lots or campus green spaces, but only in Lot U, Lot T, or at WSTC, ROC, SPN, and Callier-Dallas.
Resident Hall: Allows students to park in Residence hall parking lots or campus green spaces, but only in Lot U, Lot T, or at WSTC, ROC, SPN, and Callier-Dallas.

Please be advised electric vehicle (EV) station spaces may be utilized by those with an electric vehicle that have a Gold or higher permit level.
Only one apartment or residence hall is allowed per student residing in the on campus apartments or residence halls. On campus residents may only have one vehicle parked on campus at any time. Students living on campus are allowed to purchase an additional orange, gold, or evening orange permit in addition to the required apartment or residence hall permit. Students living on campus are not eligible to purchase green parking permits.
Parking permits are for the entire academic year, September 1 through August 31. If a student is graduating in the fall semester, the permit may be returned on or before Spring Census Day, to be eligible for a prorated refund. Students beginning courses in the Spring or Summer will be eligible to pay a prorated amount for their permit.
Disabled veterans that have a state handicap placard and/or handicap license plate in accordance with Texas Education Code, section 681.008 are eligible for a parking permit for no additional charge. Disabled veterans must register with Parking and Transportation Services to receive a UT Dallas handicap parking permit and may park in any non-reserved parking space on campus. A UT Dallas parking permit is necessary to park in any space on campus, including handicap parking spaces.
The Dallas Area Rapid Transit System (DART) provides bus and train service to and from the campus. Students are eligible to apply for a DART local pass at no additional cost via Parking and Transportation's online form.
Physical Instruction Fee: A $25.00 per course fee will be charged for all Physical Instruction (PHIN) courses.
Practical Training Fee: A $100.00 per practical training application fee is charged to assist in funding the administrative and clerical expenses required to review records and process the forms required by the United States Citizenship and Immigration Service to certify international students for placement in curricular or optional practical training assignments.
Reinstatement Fee (Prior to Census Day): After the payment deadline for each semester, all registration for which tuition and fee payments have not been received may be canceled. If a student requests that the courses be reinstated before Census Day, a $25.00 reinstatement fee will be charged in addition to the graduated late registration fee. No student will be reinstated into a class that has been closed.
Reinstatement Fee (After Census Day): A $300.00 fee will be charged, in addition to tuition and required fees, to enroll a student after Census Day.
Returned Check Fee: Students will be assessed a $25.00 fee for each returned check unless their bank provides written notification it was at fault. Students who write bad checks to the University for tuition and fees will have their registration canceled unless full payment is made by the Census Day listed in the Academic Calendar.
Student Documents/Records Fee: Students may obtain a copy of International Transcripts by making a written request to the Office of the Registrar and paying a fee of $10.00 per document copy. Processing of these requests for copies will generally take four to five work days. Students should be aware, however, that transcripts of other schools received by the University are used as working documents, frequently carry written marks and notations, and may not be considered viable transcripts by other agencies.
Student Health Insurance Fee: A variable fee to pay the student's premium for the approved UT Dallas student health insurance plan available to all students and required for international students (students who are not U.S. citizens, U.S. Permanent Residents, Asylees, Refugees or undocumented aliens). (See Student Health Insurance).
Student Health Insurance Fee, Dependents and Extra Coverage: A variable fee to pay the premium for expanded coverage within the approved UT Dallas student health insurance plan. These insurance fees are optional and available upon request to students who wish to add dependents or extra coverage to their enrollment in the UT Dallas student health insurance plan. (See Student Health Insurance).
Student Identification Card Replacement Fee: A $20.00 fee is required to defray the costs of reissuing a student ID card.
Student Teaching Supervisory Fee: A $250.00 per field experience fee is required to defray costs of providing University supervisors and travel for University supervisors of student teachers.
Supplemental Designated Tuition: An extra fee per semester credit hour will be assessed for students enrolled in any Naveen Jindal School of Management course, Erik Jonsson School of Engineering and Computer Science course, School of Arts, Technology, and Emerging Communications ATCM course, School of Economic, Political and Policy Sciences graduate Public Affairs course, or School of Behavioral and Brain Sciences graduate Speech Language or Audiology (COMD or AUD) course. These fees are assessed to defray the higher costs associated with instruction in these schools. Please check the online fee schedules at bursar.utdallas.edu/tuition/tuition-plans-rates for fees rate. The rate varies based on the specific tuition plan.
Transcript Request Fee: A $10.00 processing fee for each official University transcript requested.
University Recreation Group Exercise / Non-credit Course Fee: A group exercise pass can be purchased for $50.00 granting access to all group exercise classes for the semester. Non-credit courses vary and range from $50.00 - $250.00.
University Recreation Locker Rental Fee: An optional locker rental fee (based on the size of the locker rented) of $5.00 - $15.00 per semester.
University Recreation Towel Service Fee: An optional towel service of $10.00 per semester.
Updated: 2021-05-26 14:28:29 v6.6668a5bugz












2021 Graduate Catalog

General Information

About the 2021 Catalog
About UT Dallas
University Officers

President
President's Cabinet
Administrative Officers/Deans

UT System Regents
Contact Information
Faculty Roster
Search 2021 Graduate Catalog

Graduate Programs

Arts and Humanities

About Arts and Humanities
Art History

Art History Program
Art History (MA)

History

History Program
History (MA)

History of Ideas

History of Ideas Program
History of Ideas (MA)
History of Ideas (PhD)

Humanities

Humanities Program
Humanities (MA)
Humanities (PhD)
Certificate in Holocaust, Genocide, and Human Rights

Latin American Studies

Latin American Studies Program
Latin American Studies (MA)

Literature

Literature Program
Literature (MA)
Literature (PhD)
Certificate in Creative Writing
Certificate in Literary Translation

Visual and Performing Arts

Visual and Performing Arts Program
Visual and Performing Arts (MA)
Visual and Performing Arts (PhD)

ARHM Certificates

Certificate in Holocaust, Genocide, and Human Rights
Certificate in Creative Writing
Certificate in Literary Translation


Arts, Technology, and Emerging Communication

About Arts, Technology, and Emerging Communication
Master of Arts in ATEC (MA)

Arts, Technology, and Emerging Communication (MA)
Interaction Design Pathway
Emerging Media Studies Pathway

Master of Fine Arts in ATEC (MFA)

Arts, Technology, and Emerging Communication (MFA)
Animation Pathway
Creative Practice Pathway
Game Development Pathway

Doctor of Philosophy in ATEC (PhD)

Behavioral and Brain Sciences

About Behavioral and Brain Sciences
BBS Doctoral Programs
Neuroscience

Applied Cognition and Neuroscience (MS)

Human Development and Early Childhood Disorders

Human Development and Early Childhood Disorders (MS)

Psychology

Psychology (MS)

Speech, Language and Hearing Sciences

Speech-Language Pathology (MS)
Audiology (AuD)


Economic, Political and Policy Sciences

About Economic, Political and Policy Sciences
Criminology

Criminology (PhD)
Criminology (MS)
Justice Administration and Leadership (MS)

Economics

Economics (PhD)
Economics (MS)

Geospatial Information Sciences

Geospatial Information Sciences (PhD)
Geospatial Information Sciences (MS)

Political Science

Political Science (PhD)
Political Science (MA)

Political Science (MA)
Political Science (MA) - Law and Courts Concentration
Political Science (MA) - Legislative Studies Concentration


Public Affairs

Public Affairs (PhD)
Public Affairs (MPA)

Public Policy and Political Economy

Public Policy and Political Economy (PhD)
Cyber Security, Technology, and Policy (MS)
International Political Economy (MS)
International Political Economy Dual Degree (MS)
Master of Public Policy (MPP)

Social Data Analytics And Research

Social Data Analytics And Research (MS)

Sociology

Applied Sociology (MS)

EPPS Certificate Programs

About EPPS Certificate Programs
Certificate in Economic and Demographic Data Analysis
Certificate in Geographic Information Systems (GIS)
Certificate in Geospatial Intelligence (GeoInt)
Certificate in Local Government Management
Certificate in Nonprofit Management
Certificate in Program Evaluation
Certificate in Public Budgeting and Financial Management
Certificate in Public Human Resources Management
Certificate in Remote Sensing


Engineering and Computer Science

About Engineering and Computer Science
Bioengineering

Department of Bioengineering
Biomedical Engineering (MS)
Biomedical Engineering (PhD)

Computer Engineering

Computer Engineering Program
Computer Engineering (MS)
Computer Engineering (PhD)

Computer Science

Department of Computer Science
Computer Science (MS)
Computer Science (PhD)
Certificate in Information Assurance

Electrical Engineering

Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Electrical Engineering (MS)
Electrical Engineering (PhD)

Materials Science and Engineering

Department of Materials Science and Engineering
Materials Science and Engineering (MS)
Materials Science and Engineering (PhD)

Mechanical Engineering

Department of Mechanical Engineering
Mechanical Engineering (MS)
Mechanical Engineering (PhD)

Software Engineering

Department of Computer Science
Software Engineering (MS)
Software Engineering (PhD)
Executive Masters of Science in Software Engineering

Systems Engineering

Department of Systems Engineering
Systems Engineering and Management (MS-SEM)
Executive Masters in Systems Engineering and Management

Telecommunications Engineering

Telecommunications Engineering Program
Telecommunications Engineering (MS)
Telecommunications Engineering (PhD)

Engineering and Management Graduate Degrees

Engineering and Management Graduate Degrees
Engineering and Management Graduate Degrees (MSEE+MBA)
Engineering and Management Graduate Degrees (MSEE+MS)
Systems Engineering and Management (MS-SEM)
Double MS‐SEM/MBA
Executive Master’s in Systems Engineering and Management
Executive Education Double MSSEM/MBA Degrees

Geospatial Information Sciences

Geospatial Information Sciences (PhD)

Industrial Practice Programs

Industrial Practice Programs (IPP)

ECS Certificate Programs

Certificate in Cybersecurity Systems
Certificate in Information Assurance
Certificates in Systems Engineering or Systems Management
Executive Education Certificates in Systems Engineering or Systems Management


Interdisciplinary Studies

About Interdisciplinary Studies
Post-Baccalaureate Program for Teacher Certification

Jindal School of Management

About Jindal School of Management
Accounting (MS)
Business Administration (MBA)
Business Analytics

Business Analytics (MS)
Certificate in Applied Machine Learning

Energy Management (MS)
Finance (MS)
Financial Technology and Analytics (MS)

Financial Technology and Analytics (MS)
Certificate in Fintech
Certificate in Financial Data Science

Healthcare Leadership and Management

Healthcare Leadership and Management (MS)
Healthcare Leadership and Management - Certificate Programs

Information Technology and Management (MS)
Innovation and Entrepreneurship (MS)
International Management Studies (MS)
Management Science (MS)
Marketing (MS)
Supply Chain Management (MS)
Systems Engineering and Management (MS)

Systems Engineering and Management (MS-SEM)
Certificates in Systems Engineering or Systems Management
Double MS-SEM/MBA
Executive Masters in Systems Engineering and Management

Engineering and Management Graduate Degrees (MSEE+MBA/MS/MA)
JSOM Doctoral Programs

International Management Studies (PhD)
Management Science (PhD)

Executive Education Programs

About Executive Education Programs
Executive MBA (EMBA)
Global Leadership MBA (GLEMBA)
Project Management (Cert/MS/EMBA)
Supply Chain Management (Cert/MS/EMBA)
Healthcare Leadership and Management

Healthcare Leadership and Management (MS)
Healthcare Leadership and Management Executive MBA (MS/EMBA)
Healthcare Leadership and Management for Healthcare Professionals (MS)
Healthcare Leadership and Management Executive MBA for Healthcare Professionals (MS/EMBA)

Organizational Behavior and Coaching (Cert/MS)
Executive and Professional Coaching (Cert)
Systems Engineering and Management (MS-SEM/Cert)
Double MS-SEM/MBA Degree (MS-SEM+GLEMBA)

JSOM Certificate Programs

Applied Machine Learning Certificate
Business Intelligence and Data Mining Certificate
Corporate Innovation Certificate
Cybersecurity Systems Certificate
Enterprise Systems Certificate
Executive and Professional Coaching Certificate
Fintech Certificate
Financial Data Science Certificate
Healthcare Information Technology Certificate
Lean 6 Sigma Green Belt in Healthcare Management Certificate
Lean 6 Sigma Yellow Belt in Healthcare Management Certificate
Negotiation and Mediation Certificate
New Venture Entrepreneurship Certificate
Organizational Consulting Certificate
Product Lifecycle/Supply Chain Management Certificate
Project Management Certificate
Research Foundations in Accounting Certificate
Strategic Human Resources (HR) Certificate
Systems Engineering or Systems Management Certificates
Executive Education Certificates in Systems Engineering or Systems Management
Transformational Leadership Certificate


Natural Sciences and Mathematics

About Natural Sciences and Mathematics
Biological Sciences

Department of Biological Sciences
Biotechnology (MS)
Molecular and Cell Biology (MS)
Bioinformatics and Computational Biology (MS)
Molecular and Cell Biology (PhD)

Chemistry and Biochemistry

Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry
Chemistry (MS)
Chemistry (PhD)

Geosciences

Department of Geosciences
Geosciences (MS)
Geospatial Information Sciences (MS)
Geosciences (PhD)
Geospatial Information Sciences (PhD)

Mathematical Sciences

Department of Mathematical Sciences
Mathematics (MS)
Statistics (MS)
Actuarial Science (MS)
Bioinformatics and Computational Biology (MS)
Mathematics (PhD)
Statistics (PhD)
Graduate Certificate in Data Science

Physics

Department of Physics
Physics (MS)
Physics (PhD)

Science and Mathematics Education

Science and Mathematics Education (MA)

Interdisciplinary Programs

Bioinformatics and Computational Biology (MS)
Geospatial Information Sciences (MS)
Geospatial Information Sciences (PhD)

NSM Certificate Programs

Data Science Certificate


Teacher Education Certification

Graduate Courses

Graduate Courses by Subject
Graduate Courses by School

Graduate Admission

About Admission
Admission Requirements
Admission and Enrollment Requirements Documentation
Documentation Inquiries
Special Admission Requirements
Application
Application Fees and Deadlines

Tuition and Financial Aid

About Tuition and Financial Aid
Academic Common Market
Refund of Tuition and Fees
Other User Fees
Financial Aid
Types of Financial Aid

Policies and Procedures

List of Academic Policies and Procedures
Registration and Enrollment

Registration and Enrollment Requirements
Orientation
Academic Good Standing
Continuous Enrollment
Registration Dates
Schedule Changes - Dropping, Adding and Withdrawing From Courses
Registration Fees
Leave of Absence
Withdrawal (Resignation) from the University
Readmission

Cooperative Arrangements

Cooperative Arrangements
Concurrent Enrollment at Other Public Institutions
The University of Texas System
Visiting Student Program
Texas A&M University System

Course Policies

Auditing Courses
Course Numbering System
Course Offerings
Frequency of Course Offerings
Course Load
Repeating Coursework
Final Examinations

Fast Track

Fast Track Option
Program Requirements
Choice of Graduate Degree and Cross-Tracking
Choice of Graduate Courses
Transition to MA Program After BA Degree
Official Transcription

Grades

Grades and Grade Point Average
Incomplete Grade
Grade Changes
Pass/Fail Grading

Military Service

Military Service Activation Interruption of Education

Remain Enrolled and Complete Coursework Following Brief Military Service
Withdraw, Receive Incomplete Grade, or Receive Final Grade
Readmission Following Military Service

Delayed Disbursements From the VA Under Chapter 31 or 33

Student Travel

Student Travel Policy
International Travel, Policies and Services

Undergraduate Registration for Graduate Courses

Undergraduate Registration
Applied Toward an Undergraduate Degree
Possible Future Use as Graduate Credit

Other Policies

Academic Record and Official Transcription
Change of Address, Email, or Name
Copyrighted Material
Correspondence - Email
Criminal Background Check
Emergency Response, Fire Safety, and Security
FERPA
Hazing
Making a False Alarm or Report
Religious Holy Days
Student-Right-To-Know and Campus Security Act (Clery Act)
Use of Facilities

Graduate Degree Program Policies and Procedures

List of Graduate Degree Program Policies and Procedures
Graduate Degree Program Policies

Program of Studies/Degree Plan
Milestones Agreement Form
Change of Program
Transfer of Credit
Credit for Non-Credit Coursework
General Degree Requirements
Required Semester Credit Hours
Required Grade Point Average
Registration Requirements
Time Limits
Additional Master's Degrees
Supervising Committee for Thesis and Dissertation
Master's Thesis
Admission to Doctoral Candidacy
Doctoral Dissertation
Final Oral Examination for Doctoral Candidates
Required Copies of Dissertation and Thesis
Intellectual Property Rights

Graduation Requirements

Application for Graduation
Graduation Under a Particular Catalog
Graduation Under Priority Deadlines
Graduation under In Absentia Registration
Commencement Ceremonies


Policy on Procedures for Completing a Graduate Degree
Addedum

University Resources

List of Resources
General Resources
Health Resources
International Resources
Student Complaint Resources







The University of Texas at DallasUT Dallas ProvostCourseBookContact the Provost's Technology Group






(null clip target)













