



Degree Plans - UT Dallas 2013 Undergraduate Catalog - The University of Texas at Dallas































Jump to content
Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Catalog Home 
Undergraduate Catalogs 


2022 Undergraduate Catalog2021 Undergraduate Catalog2020 Undergraduate Catalog2019 Undergraduate Catalog2018 Undergraduate Catalog2017 Undergraduate Catalog2016 Undergraduate Catalog


 
Graduate Catalogs 


2022 Graduate Catalog2021 Graduate Catalog2020 Graduate Catalog2019 Graduate Catalog2018 Graduate Catalog2017 Graduate Catalog2016 Graduate Catalog









UT Dallas 2013 Undergraduate Catalog
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Degree Plans
A degree plan is a definition of the course of study necessary to fulfill the requirement for graduation. A degree plan is "major specific" and is established through collaboration between the student and the academic advisor for the student's major. Course changes within university sanctioned degree plans may be made with the approval of the Associate Dean of Undergraduate Education (ADU) or his or her designee. An initial degree plan must be filed as soon as possible after entering the major. Per State legislation effective fall semester 2012, all entering freshman students must file a degree plan no later than the end of the second regular semester following the semester in which the student earned 45 or more semester credit hours in accordance with Texas Education Code, Section 51.9685. The initial degree plan will be kept in the office of the academic advisor, ADU, or program head and will form the basis of the student's advisement.
In the semester preceding that in which a student plans to graduate the student is required to meet with her/his academic advisor to prepare a final degree plan along with the student's application for graduation (See "Graduation Requirements," located at catalog.utdallas.edu/2013/undergraduate/policies/graduation#requirements).
NOTE: A change of major requires preparation of a new degree plan.
Change of Major
Students wishing to change majors should complete an "Undergraduate Change of Major Request Form" (located at www.utdallas.edu/student/registrar/forms) in their academic advisor's office before registration and no later than the first day of classes of a semester/term. Students with 54 or more hours must seek approval of the Associate Dean for Undergraduate Education in the school of the intended major.
Students with a cumulative GPA below 2.000 may only change their major with permission from the Associate Dean of their current major and the Associate Dean of their intended major. Both Associate Deans' signatures are required on the "Undergraduate Change of Major Request Form" prior to its submission to the Office of the Registrar in the Student Services Building, first floor customer service area.
If the change of major is approved, the student will then be responsible for meeting all program requirements and course prerequisites of the catalog in effect at the time of the change. The Core Curriculum requirements, however, remain those of the catalog in force at the time of matriculation unless the student specifically chooses those of a more recent catalog. In the first semester of change to a new major, the student must meet with an academic advisor to prepare a degree plan.
Deadlines and Fees
The Office of the Registrar will accept "Undergraduate Change of Major" forms for processing up to the close of business on the first day of classes of each semester. Forms received after the first day of classes will be processed effective for the following semester.
All students are allowed to modify their major twice during their academic career at no charge. A modification is defined as a change, addition, or deletion of a major to a student's academic plan. A student's academic career begins the first class day of the first semester of enrollment at UT Dallas.
If a student elects to modify his/her major more than two times during an academic career, the third modification requires a $50.00 fee. EXCEPTION: There is no charge to move from the "undeclared major" category.
Declaring a Major
Undergraduate students must declare an academic course of study or major by the time they have earned 54 semester credit hours in order to continue enrollment. These hours include UT Dallas credits, credit transferred from other institutions, and hours awarded through credit by examination (AP, CLEP, IB, SAT, and so on).
Transfer students who have earned 54 hours at the time they apply for admission to UT Dallas may be undeclared for one semester.  These students will be advised in their first semester by the Student Outreach and Academic Retention (SOAR) advising office.  After the initial semester these students must then declare a major to be allowed to register for a subsequent semester.
Continuing students on academic probation who pass the 54-hour benchmark without declaring a major have a maximum of two long semesters to regain good academic standing. During this period students will remain undeclared. A student who fails to regain good standing within two long-semesters will be suspended from the University.
Double Major and Double Degree
Students should consult their advisors and/or primary school to learn more about double majors or double degrees. Additional information can be found at "Other Degree Requirements" at catalog.utdallas.edu/2013/undergraduate/curriculum/other-degree-requirements.
Updated: 2019-08-09 13:10:45 v2.9167cabugz












2013 Undergraduate Catalog

General Information

About the 2013 Catalog
About UT Dallas
University Officers
UT System Regents
Contact Information
Faculty Roster
Search 2013 Undergraduate Catalog

Undergraduate Programs

Arts and Humanities

Art and Performance
ATEC
EMAC
Historical Studies
Literary Studies

Behavioral and Brain Sciences

Child Learning and Development
Cognitive Science
Neuroscience
Psychology
Speech-Language Pathology and Audiology

Economic, Political and Policy Sciences

Criminology
Criminology and Biology
Economics
Economics and Finance
Geospatial Information Sciences
International Political Economy
Political Science
Public Affairs
Sociology

Engineering and Computer Science

Biomedical Engineering
Computer Engineering
Computer Science
Electrical Engineering
Mechanical Engineering
Software Engineering
Telecommunications Engineering

Interdisciplinary Studies

American Studies
Healthcare Studies
Interdisciplinary Studies

Jindal School of Management

Accounting
Business Administration
Business Administration and Biology
Business Administration and Molecular Biology
Finance
Finance and Economics
Global Business
Management Information Systems
Marketing
Supply Chain Management

Natural Science and Mathematics

Actuarial Science
Biochemistry
Biology
Biology and Business Administration
Biology and Criminology
Chemistry
Geosciences
Mathematics
Molecular Biology
Molecular Biology and Business Administration
Physics
Biomedical Sciences (Cert)

Teacher Certification

Undergraduate Courses

Undergraduate Courses by Subject
Undergraduate Courses by School
Undergraduate Interdisciplinary Courses
Undergraduate Developmental Courses

Undergraduate Admission

About Admission
Application Fees and Deadlines
Freshman Admission
International Student Admission
Readmission
Special Admissions
Transfer Student Admissions

Undergraduate Curriculum

About Curriculum
Core Curriculum
Honors Programs
Other Degree Requirements

Tuition and Financial Aid

About Tuition and Financial Aid
Excessive Undergraduate Hours
Refund of Tuition and Fees
Other User Fees
Financial Aid
Types of Financial Aid

Policies and Procedures

List of Undergraduate Policies

Academic
Admission
Change of Address
Correspondence - Email
Courses
Degree Plans
Disciplinary Actions
FERPA
Graduate Courses
Graduation
International Education
Military Service
Registration
Religious Holy Days
Student Travel


University Resources

List of Resources

General Resources
Health Resources
Professional Resources
Student Complaint Resources


Catalog Appendices

Appendix I - Rules, Regulations, and Statutory Requirements
Appendix II - Transfer of Lower-Division Course Credit







The University of Texas at DallasUT Dallas ProvostCourseBookContact the Provost's Technology Group






(null clip target)













