


Course Description - School of Economic, Political and Policy Sciences (Print Version)









UT Dallas 2013 Undergraduate CatalogCriminologyCRIM 1301 (CRIJ 1301) Introduction to Criminal Justice (3 semester hours) An overview and analysis of the major agencies, personnel, and decision-making points which comprise the criminal justice system. Includes problems and issues confronting legislatures, police, courts, corrections, and the community, as they respond to crime in a free society. Legal precedents guiding the decisions of criminal justice agents are also discussed. (3-0) YCRIM 1307 (CRIJ 1307) Introduction to Crime and Criminology (3 semester hours) Survey of the nature, location, and impact of crime in America. Includes historical foundations of crime, theoretical explanations of criminality and delinquency, the recording and measurement of crime, descriptions of criminal careers, crime topologies, and an analysis of public policies concerning crime control. (3-0) YCRIM 2306 (CRIJ 1310) Criminal Law (3 semester hours) This course will examine the statutory basis of crime, the legal requirements surrounding the establishment of "mens rea" and legally permissible defenses permitted under criminal due process. Emphasis is placed on both criminal statutes and case law. (3-0) TCRIM 2308 (CRIJ 1313) Juvenile Law (3 semester hours) This course examines the statutory bases which distinguish delinquency from adult crime and the juvenile justice system from the criminal justice system. Emphasis is placed on the rationale for treating juveniles accused of crime differently than their adult counterparts. (3-0) RCRIM 2313 (CRIJ 2328) Police and Society (3 semester hours) This course examines the central issues of enforcing law and promoting public safety in society with emphasis placed on both internal organizational issues of police administration and external enforcement operations. (3-0) RCRIM 2316 (CRIJ 2313) Corrections (3 semester hours) This course will provide an introduction to the history and background of American corrections and the fundamental theories of punishment and treatment. Emphasis will be placed on the policies, practices, and issues within the correctional system, the incarceration of criminal populations in jails and prisons, and the expansion of community-based corrections. (3-0) RCRIM 2317 (CRIJ 1306) Criminal Prosecution and Court Process (3 semester hours) This course examines the processes and politics of bringing criminal defendants to trial. Topics also include decision making points and the constitutional system of criminal due process under which criminal law is practiced. (3-0) RCRIM 3300 Crime and Civil Liberties (3 semester hours) The functions of the police, courts, prosecution, and corrections are analyzed within a context in which constitutional rights and civil liberties affect the functioning of the criminal justice system. Major emphasis is placed on the extent to which civil liberties and procedural rights constrain or limit the system's effectiveness in delivering crime control, while at the same time ensuring justice. (3-0) TCRIM 3301 Theories of Justice (3 semester hours) Survey of the basic theoretical rationales and perspectives concerning the concept of justice with selected readings from classical and contemporary theorists. (3-0) RCRIM 3302 Advanced Criminology (3 semester hours) This course provides students with an in-depth study of crime, criminals, and the reaction of the criminal justice system to both. It explores the interrelationships among law, policy, and societal conditions. The major focus of the course is theoretical explanations for crime and criminality. Prerequisite: CRIM 1307. (3-0) YCRIM 3303 Advanced Criminal Justice (3 semester hours) Analyzes the major agencies, personnel, and decision-making points which comprise the criminal justice system. Explores some of the major theories and research about the roles that the various agencies and actors play in the criminal justice system. Includes discussion of the problems and current issues confronting legislatures, police, courts, corrections, and the community, as they respond to crime. Prerequisite: CRIM 1301. (3-0) YCRIM 3304 Research Methods in Crime and Justice Studies (3 semester hours) Examines methods of crime and justice research. Topics include the nature of scientific inquiry, framing a research problem, choosing a research design, developing hypotheses, sampling designs, and measuring variables. Topics will be covered as students conduct their own study. (Same as PA 3304 and SOC 3304) (3-0) YCRIM 3307 Immigration and Crime (3 semester hours) The course emphasizes the practices and policies of law enforcement's efforts to control illegal immigration, including the relationship between illegal immigration and counterterrorism, as well as victimization experienced by immigrants. (3-0) RCRIM 3309 Media and Crime (3 semester hours) Examines the media's image of crime and the criminal justice system. An emphasis is placed on how various types of media construct or perceive criminal activities, how the media influences public policy and shapes perceptions of crime as a social problem. Topics include crime news, films and television dramas depicting crime and criminals, the media as a cause, consequence and cure for crime and news-making criminology. (3-0) RCRIM 3310 Youth Crime and Justice (3 semester hours) Examines the concept of juvenile delinquency as a distinct type of criminal activity from that committed by adults and assesses the distinct juvenile justice system that has evolved to handle children. Topics will include the historical roots of delinquency and the juvenile justice system, delinquency measurement, explanations of delinquency, and the socio-demographic correlates of delinquency status. (3-0) RCRIM 3312 Drugs and Crime (3 semester hours) Provides students with a survey of legislation that has been attempted to combat the use of drugs, the relationship between drug use/abuse and crime, and the public policy problem surrounding the control of drugs. Topics include a historical analysis of the laws passed to control drugs, the relationship between drugs and crime, and a policy analysis of the alternative means available to deal with the drugs/crime problem. (3-0) RCRIM 3319 Comparative Justice Systems (3 semester hours) Survey of the differing policies, practices, and procedures of crime and justice cross-nationally. Special emphasis will be devoted to U.S. / Mexico comparisons, while additional emphasis will be placed on such comparisons as U.S. / Canada and U.S. / England. (3-0) RCRIM 3320 Homicide and Capital Punishment (3 semester hours) Examines the policy and legal controversies surrounding the application of capital punishment (i.e., the death penalty) as a punishment for homicide. Topics include capital punishment through history, U.S. Supreme Court decisions and contemporary problems with the application of the death penalty. The course will also analyze the nature, extent, and distribution of criminal homicide. (3-0) RCRIM 3323 Violence and Gun Control (3 semester hours) The primary purpose of this course is the examination of facts surrounding one of the most heated issues of our times: the relationship between guns, violence and gun control. The course provides a comprehensive criminological view of the topic rather than a political or legal one. Students will learn about evaluating evidence, the "stricter gun law" debate, and flaws in arguments on both sides of the issue as well as tricks used by advocates to persuade people to agree with their point of view. (3-0) RCRIM 3324 Gender, Crime, and Justice (3 semester hours) Analysis of the role of gender crime and the justice system. The emphasis is on gender differences in the commission of crime and the types of crimes committed, criminal justice processing, and the employment of women in the criminal justice professions. (3-0) TCRIM 3325 Victimology (3 semester hours) Analyzes the major perspectives on victimization. The emphasis is on patterns of victimization, the role of victims in the generation of crime, and the experience of victims in the criminal justice system. Special attention will be devoted to: sources of data (particularly the National Crime Victimization Survey), trends, variations by demography and offense type and ways in which those variations may affect how criminal justice officials respond to particular types of offenses. (3-0) RCRIM 3326 Victimless Crimes (3 semester hours) Examines public order crimes, which includes a variety of behaviors that are illegal yet generally perceived by those engaging in them to be legitimate, justified, and acceptable. Many such offenses are illegal only because the government has said so, especially public order violations where there may be no identifiable victim. The objective of this course is to develop an understanding of the complexities and controversies that swirl around these offenses. Prerequisite: CRIM 1301 or CRIM 1307. (3-0) RCRIM 3327 Violent Crime (3 semester hours) This course explores the etiology, enactment, and control of serious interpersonal violence. The analytic focus includes robbery, homicide, aggravated assault, sexual assault, state violence, and white collar violence. Prerequisite: CRIM 1301 or CRIM 1307. (3-0) RCRIM 4311 Crime and Justice Policy (3 semester hours) In-depth analysis of crime and the efforts to control crime through public policy. Although crime is most often committed by private persons against individual victims, crime is a public problem and society's reaction to crime and criminals is one of the most controversial areas of public policy. Crime control, deterrence and incapacitation, gun control, law enforcement, and court processes are just a few of the areas in which public opinion and policy are in current controversy and debate. Prerequisite: CRIM 3302 or CRIM 3303. (3-0) RCRIM 4315 Race, Ethnicity, and Justice (3 semester hours) Examines how race and ethnicity pose differential risks for criminal behavior in conjunction with differential justice system responses to crime and criminals in minority communities. Prerequisite: CRIM 3302 or CRIM 3303. (3-0) RCRIM 4322 Senior Research Seminar (3 semester hours) Major concepts and principles of Criminology will be applied to the analysis of crime. Capstone required course for senior Criminology majors. Completion of all, or concurrent enrollment in, major requirements. (3-0) TCRIM 4323 Communities and Crime (3 semester hours) Analyzes the sources, consequences, and control of crime within communities. The emphasis is on social and ecological theories of crime, and on population instability, family structure, and the concentration of poverty as causes of crime. Community crime prevention efforts are also discussed. Prerequisite: CRIM 3302. (3-0) TCRIM 4324 White Collar Crime (3 semester hours) Examines the criminality of individuals from higher social statuses, organizations, professions, and businesses. Also examined are individual crimes of trust (e.g., tax evasion, embezzlement, etc.) that are qualitatively different from traditional street crimes (e.g., burglary, robbery, etc.), but are not necessarily limited to corporations or individuals of high social status. Theories relevant to the etiology of such acts are considered as well as policies relevant to the punishment and prevention of white collar crime. (3-0) RCRIM 4336 Introduction to Terrorism (3 semester hours) Examines the origins, nature, and operational characteristics of terrorist groups around the world. Students are exposed to a wide range of topics, ranging from the definition of terrorism to the unique characteristics of terrorist cells in the United States and abroad. Historical and contemporary terrorist attacks are explored within their context. (3-0) RCRIM 4337 Landmark Supreme Court Cases (3 semester hours) Discusses important U.S. Supreme Court decisions and their influence in criminal justice. Special attention is given to the Bill of Rights and other key constitutional provisions of relevance in the areas of police, courts, corrections, and crime control policy. (3-0) RCRIM 4396 Selected Topics in Criminology (3 semester hours) Subject matter will vary from semester to semester. Examples include "Gangs," "Organized Crime," "White Collar Crime," "Criminalistics," and "Gun Control." May be repeated for credit (9 hours maximum). (3-0) RCRIM 4v97 Independent Study in Criminology (1-6 semester hours) Independent study under a CRIM faculty member's direction. Prerequisite: Instructor consent required. May be repeated for credit (6 hours maximum). ([1-6]-0) SCRIM 4v98 Internship in Criminology (1-6 semester hours) May be repeated for credit (6 hours maximum). This course can only be taken Credit/No Credit. Prerequisite: Instructor consent required ([1-6]-0) SCRIM 4v99 Senior Honors in Criminology (1-6 semester hours) For students conducting independent research for honors theses or projects. Prerequisite: Instructor consent required. May be repeated for credit (6 hours maximum). ([1-6]-0) SEconomicsECON 2001 Principles of Macroeconomics: Recitation (0 semester hours) This course is designed as a recitation or practice session for ECON 2301 Principles of Macroeconomics core curriculum course. Corequisite: ECON 2301. (1-0) SECON 2301 (ECON 2301) Principles of Macroeconomics (3 semester hours) An introduction to theories of the determination of national production and income, interest rates, inflation, and unemployment. Other topics include the banking system, balance of payments, economic growth and development. (3-0) SECON 2302 (ECON 2302) Principles of Microeconomics (3 semester hours) An introduction to theories of the behavior of markets. Topics include the theory of demand and supply, market structure, resource markets, international interdependence in commodity markets, the role of government policy and regulation. Note: ECON 2302 may be taken prior to ECON 2301 (3-0) SECON 3304 Basic Techniques for Economic Research (3 semester hours) An introduction to the primary methods used in economic research. Topics include information technology, computer software, mathematics and statistics for economists. This course is designed to provide a foundation for all other upper level economics and finance courses. Prerequisites: College level algebra and college level statistics [(MATH 1314 and STAT 1342) or (MATH 1314 and EPPS 3405)]. (3-0) YECON 3310 Intermediate Microeconomic Theory (3 semester hours) The study of theories of demand, production, competition, markets, and welfare. Implications of theory for purposes of public policy prescriptions are given particular emphasis. Prerequisites: ECON 2302 and (ECON 3304 or MATH 2417 or MATH 1325 or MATH 2413), or instructor consent required. (3-0) SECON 3311 Intermediate Macroeconomic Theory (3 semester hours) A study of the determinants of national income, employment, interest rates, and the price level, including theories and evidence regarding the influence of monetary and fiscal policies on the economy. Prerequisites: ECON 2301 and ECON 2302 and (ECON 3304 or MATH 2417 or MATH 1325 or MATH 2413), or instructor consent required. (3-0) SECON 3312 Money and Banking (3 semester hours) The development, structure, and regulation of financial institutions and the roles of these institutions in determining the money supply and level of economic activity. (3-0) TECON 3315 Sports Economics (3 semester hours) Applies principles of economic analysis to look at the nature and characteristics of professional and amateur sports industries. Examines franchising and profit-maximization, monopoly and anti-trust, public financing of sports facilities, labor markets for players, team competitive balance, discrimination and other themes. Prerequisite: ECON 2302. (3-0) TECON 3330 Economics of Health (3 semester hours) A study of personal and public expenditures on health care, the markets for medical personnel, the medical industry, the health insurance market, and present and proposed health care policies. This course fulfills the University's writing requirement. (3-0) RECON 3335 Psychology and Economics (3 semester hours) A study of the ways economists use basic principles from psychology in order to test and augment economic theory. Prerequisite: ECON 2302. (3-0) RECON 3336 Economics of Education (3 semester hours) This course looks at education through the lens of economics. Topics include ways to finance education, various controversies in the production of human capital, public policies that are designed to improve education and the consequences of poor educational performance. Prerequisite: ECON 2302. (3-0) RECON 3337 Economics of Poverty and Inequality (3 semester hours) Examines the economic causes and consequences of poverty and inequality. Topics include U.S. welfare policy and transfer programs. Prerequisite: ECON 2302. (3-0) RECON 3369 Political Economy of Terrorism (3 semester hours) Economic and statistical methods applied to terrorism. Topics include liberal democracy dilemma, counterterrorism, history of terrorism, international cooperation, and game theory applications. Prerequisite: ECON 2302. (3-0) RECON 3381 Economic History (3 semester hours) A review of the history of Western civilization, with particular emphasis on the economic influences of money, resources, production, and trade on political and social events. This course is also recommended for students who are not economics majors. (3-0) RECON 4301 Game Theory (3 semester hours) Rational decision-making in strategic situations where the optimal decision for one player depends upon the strategies of others. Games are illustrated through the use of economic examples, such as pricing and output decisions of firms, common property usage, bargaining, international trade games, and games of market entry. Prerequisite: ECON 3310. (3-0) TECON 4310 Managerial Economics (3 semester hours) The development of tools based on economic principles for managerial decisions about pricing, costing, market structure and strategic competition. Prerequisite: ECON 3304 or MATH 1325 or MATH 2417 or MATH 2413. (3-0) RECON 4320 Public Sector Economics (3 semester hours) A study of the economics of the public sector, including taxation, public expenditures, and fiscal policy. Examines the theoretical foundation for government intervention in the economy, and the incentive effects of government policies on work, investment, and the spending of income. Prerequisite: ECON 3310. (3-0) YECON 4330 Law and Economics (3 semester hours) Contracts, torts, and property rights, integrating economic theory concerning efficiency and equity with actual legal cases. Topics include medical malpractice, habitability laws, zoning, crime deterrence, environmental laws, and discrimination. This course is also recommended for students who are not economics majors. (3-0) RECON 4332 Energy and Natural Resources Economics (3 semester hours) This course is a study in the application of economics to renewable and nonrenewable natural resources problems and to the role of the energy sector in the world economy. This course fulfills the University's writing requirement. Prerequisite: ECON 2302. (3-0) RECON 4333 Environmental Economics (3 semester hours) A study of people and their environment, emphasizing the social and economic consequences of development and pollution. Alternative public policies for dealing with environmental impacts are explored. Prerequisite: ECON 2302. (3-0) TECON 4334 Experimental Economics (3 semester hours) This is a course in the use of laboratory methods to study behavior in economics and the social sciences. Students will study state-of-the-art methodology in experimental economics, including experimental design, laboratory technique, financial incentives, and analysis of data. Students will participate in, design, and conduct experiments in bargaining, auctions, asset markets, public goods and commons situations, and risky decision-making. Prerequisite: ECON 3310. (3-0) TECON 4336 Environmental Economic Theory and Policy (3 semester hours) Economic and ecology aims at understanding the workings of highly interconnected systems in which trade-offs among goals of participants and policy makers are unavoidable. This course brings them together to study the environmental implications of environmental growth and development and to utilize the tools of economic theory to analyze ecological problems and suggest practical policy solutions that are efficient as well as effective. Topics include environmental ethics, collective goods, externalities, pollution control, energy, economics and ecology, and climate change. Prerequisite: ECON 2302. (3-0) RECON 4340 Labor Economics and Human Resources (3 semester hours) Analyses of wage and employment determination, the role of unions and government in labor market outcomes; discussion of such issues as human capital, discrimination, occupational safety and health, and labor market segmentation. Prerequisite: ECON 3310. (3-0) TECON 4342 Public Policies Toward Business (3 semester hours) Analysis of the economic rationale for government intervention in markets. The course considers direct intervention in the form of price, entry, and/or product quality directives, the economic welfare foundations of public utility economics, and the theory of regulation and deregulation, including indirect regulation through antitrust laws. Topics include collusion, price discrimination, vertical restraints, and other attempts to monopolize a market. Prerequisite: ECON 3310. (3-0) RECON 4345 Industrial Organization (3 semester hours) Market structure, firm conduct, and social performance of industries with emphasis on firms' strategic behavior in price and nonprice competition. Topics include oligopoly pricing, strategic entry deterrence, location strategies, product differentiation, advertising, research and development, and the effect of firms' conduct on economic welfare and market structure. Prerequisite: ECON 3310. (3-0) TECON 4346 Technology, Economy, and Society (3 semester hours) This course explores the ways technology and society shape one another in an economic context. Drawing on theoretical and research contributions from several social sciences, the course devotes primary attention to the economic impacts of so-called information and communication technologies (ICT) on employment and earnings, job creation and destruction, new firm formation and failure, as well as profit and productivity. (3-0) RECON 4348 Business and Technology (3 semester hours) This course explores the role of technological innovation in macroeconomic performance and firm-level business activity. It highlights theoretical and research contributions from across several social sciences, engineering, and management. Topics include reflection on how technical advances emerge from - and have their impacts shaped within - markets and broader societal organization. The roles of domestic political institutions and public policy, as well as geo-political contexts, will be used to illustrate the broader implications of the technology-business relationship. Prerequisite: ECON 2302 or instructor consent required. (3-0) RECON 4351 Mathematical Economics (3 semester hours) Mathematical formulation of economic theories such as static and dynamic analysis of market behavior and macroeconomic models. Introduction to optimization techniques and linear algebra. Prerequisites: (ECON 3304 or STAT 1342 or EPPS 3405) and (MATH 2419 or MATH 2414 or MATH 1326). (3-0) YECON 4355 Econometrics (3 semester hours) The application of statistical methods to economic analysis; particular attention is given to regression analysis and hypothesis testing. Prerequisites: (ECON 3304 or STAT 1342 or EPPS 3405) and (MATH 2419 or MATH 2414 or MATH 1326). (3-0) YECON 4360 International Trade (3 semester hours) Studies international relationships among national economies with a principal focus on trade relationships. Examines theories of trade, rationale for protectionism, and the foundation of exchange markets. Prerequisite: ECON 3310. (3-0) YECON 4362 Development Economics (3 semester hours) A study of development and economic growth, with a principal focus on less developed countries. Includes theories and patterns of development, the role of human resources, capital resources, agriculture, and international markets. Prerequisites: ECON 2302 and ECON 3311. (3-0) RECON 4370 Advanced Experimental Economics (3 semester hours) Students will design and implement economic experiments in order to test hypotheses about human behavior and institutional arrangements. Prerequisites: ECON 4334 and instructor consent required. (3-0) RECON 4381 History of Economic Ideas (3 semester hours) An investigation into the writings and ideas of economists past and present. Beginning with the ancient Greeks and ending with contemporary radical economic thought, the course places current economic issues into historical perspective. Works by Smith, Malthus, Mill, Marx, Veblen, Schumpeter, Galbraith, and others are covered. This course is also recommended for students who are not economics majors. (3-0) RECON 4382 International Finance (3 semester hours) Studies the international financial system, including the foreign exchange markets and the balance of payment accounts. Includes a discussion of international monetary theory. This course fulfills the University's writing requirement. Prerequisite: ECON 3311. (3-0) TECON 4385 Business and Economic Forecasting (3 semester hours) Techniques, statistical and otherwise, for forecasting events relevant to business and economic activities. Prerequisite: ECON 3304 or MATH 2419 or MATH 1326 or MATH 2414. (3-0) RECON 4396 Selected Topics in Economics (3 semester hours) Subject matter will vary from semester to semester. May be repeated for credit (9 hours maximum). (3-0) RECON 4v97 Independent Study in Economics (1-6 semester hours) Independent study under a faculty member's direction. May be repeated for credit (6 hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-6]-0) SECON 4v98 Internship (1-6 semester hours) May repeat for credit (6 hours maximum) Instructor consent required. This course can only be taken Credit/No Credit. ([1-6]-0) SECON 4v99 Senior Honors in Economics (1-6 semester hours) For students conducting independent research for honors theses or projects. May be repeated for credit (6 hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-6]-0) SEnvironmental SciencesENVR 2302 (GEOL 1305) The Global Environment (3 semester hours) An introduction to the physical aspects of the world's geography emphasizing the interrelationships between the earth and its climate, vegetations, soils, and landforms. Provides a global perspective on the physical environment and the interactions between global systems to produce regional differences. (Same as GEOG 2302 and GEOS 2302) (3-0) TEconomic, Political and Policy SciencesEPPS 1110 Freshman Seminar (1 semester hour) This course is a graduation requirement for all first time in college EPPS freshman. This course is designed to introduce incoming freshmen to the intellectual and cultural environment of the School of Economic, Political and Policy Sciences. Students will learn about EPPS majors, research opportunities, careers, and internships. The course covers introductory information applied to criminology, political science, public affairs/public administration, nonprofit management, economics, global economy, and sociology. This course is also open to all non-EPPS majors. Corequisite: UNIV 1010. (1-0) YEPPS 3405 Introduction to Social Statistics with Lab (4 semester hours) This course introduces students to the basic tools of statistics and shows how they are used in the analysis of social science data. A fundamental understanding of these tools is a critical foundation for social science research in many fields. The course covers descriptive statistics, inference from samples, hypothesis testing, and the basics of regression analysis. NOTE: This course is required of all social science majors and is a prerequisite for a required course in social science research methods within each discipline (for example, ECON 3304 and GEOG 3304). Prerequisite: MATH 1306 or MATH 1314 (preferred) or higher. (3-1) SGeographyGEOG 1304 (GEOL 1304) History of Earth and Life (3 semester hours) Introduction to the history of the Earth. The history of life and an introduction to the principles of paleontology, stratigraphy and global change will be discussed. All topics will be discussed in the context of the tectonic evolution of North America. Field trip. Prerequisites: GEOS 1303 and GEOS 1103. (Same as GEOS 1304) (3-0) YGEOG 2302 (GEOL 1305) The Global Environment (3 semester hours) An introduction to the physical aspects of the world's geography emphasizing the interrelationships between the earth and its climate, vegetations, soils, and landforms. Provides a global perspective on the physical environment and the interactions between global systems to produce regional differences. (Same as ENVR 2302 and GEOS 2302) (3-0) TGEOG 2303 People and Place: An Introduction to World Geographic Regions (3 semester hours) Provides an introduction to the human geography of the world by examining how key concepts of place and space can be used to understand the character and interactions of major regions of the world including Southwest Asia, Southeast Asia, Western Europe, Eastern Europe, the Middle East, Middle America, the Caribbean, the Pacific World, North America, South America, and Sub-Saharan Africa. (3-0) YGEOG 3304 Tools for Spatial Analysis (3 semester hours) An introduction to the primary methods used in geographic analysis. Topics include spatial statistics, cartography, and geographic information systems (GIS). This course is designed to provide a foundation for all other upper level Geography courses. Prerequisite: EPPS 3405 or STAT 1342. (Same as GISC 3304 and GEOS 3304) (3-0) YGEOG 3331 Urban Growth and Structure (3 semester hours) Deals with the economic and spatial processes underlying urban growth and regional development, and with the structural and demographic characteristics of urban areas as well as the social and psychological dynamics of urban life. (3-0) TGEOG 3357 Spatial Dimensions of Health and Disease (3 semester hours) Examines the spatial dimensions of health, disease and the public health and health care systems. Provides an introduction to spatial epidemiology and a bridge to the terminology of medical and health care professionals. (3-0) RGEOG 3359 Human Migration and Mobility: Global Patterns (3 semester hours) Explores the nature, structure and geography of population flows, and their influence on evolution of human settlement patterns through the ages. Offers analysis of push and pull factors as reflections of socioeconomic conditions in various regions of the world, and investigates the impacts of globalization on migration and mobility. (3-0) YGEOG 3370 The Global Economy (3 semester hours) Considers the changing relationships of population, resources, and the economy; the transformation of classical spatial economics; and the processes producing increasing globalization. Particular attention is paid to technological change and to the dynamics of world trade and investment. This course is also recommended for students who are not economics majors. (3-0) TGEOG 3372 Population and Development (3 semester hours) Examines the relations between population, development, and the environment. Essential components of demographic analysis lay the foundation for a critical evaluation of demographic transition theory. Other topics include public health, population structure and life chances, cultural differences and women's status, aging, environmental impacts, and population policy. (3-0) TGEOG 3377 Urban Planning and Policy (3 semester hours) Explores important substantive areas and concepts in the field of urban and regional planning and current urban planning and policy issues and debates. Topics include: forces that have historically guided and are currently guiding U.S. urbanization; land use, growth management, transportation and traffic congestion, economic development, housing and community development, environmental planning; legal, environmental, governmental contexts. (Same as PA 3377) (3-0) YGEOG 3382 Russia: Yesterday, Today, and Tomorrow (3 semester hours) Introduction to Russian geography, economics, politics, history, culture and Russian-American relations. Explores characteristics of Russian society and its evolution. Investigates the rise of Russia to prominence, the Soviet legacy in present economic and social policies, and Russia's place in the global order. (3-0) YGEOG 4380 Spatial Concepts and Organization (3 semester hours) Examines the recurring patterns of physical and human objects on the Earth's surface, the flows or circulations among them, and the spatial concepts and theories which have been advanced to help understand and explain these spatial arrangements. Provides a fundamental understanding of spatial processes, concepts and theories. (3-0) YGEOG 4396 Selected Topics in Geography (3 semester hours) Subject matter will vary from semester to semester. May be repeated for credit (9 hours maximum). (3-0) RGEOG 4v97 Independent Study in Geography (1-6 semester hours) Independent study under a faculty member's direction. May be repeated for credit (6 hours maximum). Prerequisite: Instructor consent required. ([1-6]-0) SGEOG 4v98 Internship (1-6 semester hours) May repeat for credit up to a total of six semester credit hours. This course can only be taken Credit/No Credit. Prerequisite: Instructor consent required. ([1-6]-0) SGEOG 4v99 Senior Honors in Geography (1-6 semester hours) For students conducting independent research for honors theses or projects. Prerequisite: Instructor consent required. May be repeated for credit (6 hours maximum). ([1-6]-0) SGeospatial Information SciencesGISC 2301 Introduction to Geospatial Information Science (3 semester hours) A broad introduction to geospatial information science, including GIS, remote sensing, GPS, spatial data analysis, cartography, and other topics. (Same as GEOS 2301) (2-2) YGISC 2302 Geodesy and Geospatial Analysis (3 semester hours) Introduction to the basic concepts of geodetic datums (horizontal and vertical), coordinate systems, and map projections. Applications in the Earth Sciences will be discussed to reinforce concepts. (Same as GEOS 2306) (3-0) YGISC 3304 Tools for Spatial Analysis (3 semester hours) An introduction to the primary methods used in geographic analysis. Topics include spatial statistics, cartography, and geographic information systems (GIS). This course is designed to provide a foundation for all other upper level Geography courses. Prerequisite: EPPS 3405 or STAT 1342. (Same as GEOG 3304 and GEOS 3304) (3-0) YGISC 4101 Exploring Geographic Information Systems (1 semester hour) A two day weekend workshop designed to provide GIS neophytes with a basic introduction to GIS spatial analysis theories and software techniques. May not be taken for credit by GISC majors. (1-1) SGISC 4317 GeoComputation (3 semester hours) Introduction to fundamental computational skills and their implementation in GIS software development. Topics covered include geoprocessing functions, geospatial modeling, visual programming, scripting and application development. Students are expected to design and implement a project. Prerequisite: (GEOS 2301 or GISC 2301) or (GEOG 3304 or GEOS 3304 or GISC 3304). (3-0) YGISC 4325 Introduction to Remote Sensing (3 semester hours) Topics include principles of remote sensing and sensors, image visualization and statistics, radiometric and geometric correction, enhancement, classification, change detection, and innovative image processing approaches. (Same as GEOS 4325) (3-0) YGISC 4326 Cartography and GeoVisualization (3 semester hours) Examines the theoretical concepts and practical applications of cartographic and geographic visualization. Topics covered include concepts for geographic data representation, symbolization and map design, and methods for geographic visualization and display. 3D visualization, cartographic animation, and web-based mapping may also be included. Lab sessions explore the implementation of cartographic and geographic visualization with industry standard GIS software. Prerequisite: (GEOS 2301 or GISC 2301) or (GEOG 3304 or GEOS 3304 or GISC 3304). (3-0) YGISC 4382 Applied Geographic Information Systems (3 semester hours) Further develops hands-on skills with industry-standard GIS software for application in a wide variety of areas including urban infrastructure management, marketing and location analysis, environmental management, geologic and geophysical analysis and the Economic, Political and Policy Sciences. Prerequisite: (GEOS 2301 or GISC 2301) or equivalent with instructor's consent. (3-0) YGISC 4384 Urban and Environmental GIS (3 semester hours) Application of GIS in solving real world urban and/or environmental problems. Advanced techniques such as geospatial analysis, modeling, simulation and visualization will be covered. State-of-the-art software will be introduced through hands-on laboratory experiences. Prerequisite: (GEOS 2301 or GISC 2301) or (GEOG 3304 or GISC 3304 or GEOS 3304). May be repeated for credit (6 hours maximum). (3-0) YGISC 4385 Advances in GIS (3 semester hours) This course introduces advances in contemporary geographic information system and sciences. Topics covered may include advanced GIS applications in social and natural environments, algorithms and their implementations in GIS, computational aspects of GIS such as uncertainty and data quality assessment. Prerequisite: (GEOS 2301 or GISC 2301) or (GEOG 3304 or GISC 3304 or GEOS 3304). May be repeated for credit (6 hours maximum). (3-0) YGISC 4v96 Special Topics in Geospatial Information Science (1-3 semester hours) Subject matter will vary from semester to semester. May be repeated for credit (9 hour maximum). ([1-3]-0) RGISC 4v97 Independent Study in Geospatial Information Science (1-6 semester hours) Independent study under a faculty member's direction. May be repeated for credit. (6 hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-6]-0) RGISC 4v98 Internship (1-6 semester hours) May be repeated for credit up to a total of six semester credit hours. Instructor consent required. This course can only be taken Credit/No Credit. ([1-6]-0) SGISC 4v99 Senior Honors in Geospatial Information Science (1-6 semester hours) For students conducting independent research for honors thesis or projects. May be repeated for credit (6 hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-6]-0) SGovernment and PoliticsGOVT 2107 (GOVT 2107) Federal and Texas Constitutions (1 semester hour) Includes consideration of the Constitution of the United Sates and the constitutions of the states, with special emphasis on that of Texas. Enrollment limited to students who have already completed a minimum of 6 semester credit hours of GOVT courses but have not satisfied the statutory requirement for study of the federal and state constitutions. Prerequisites: GOVT 2301 and GOVT 2302. (1-0) SGOVT 2301 (GOVT 2301) Constitutional Foundations and Political Behavior in the U.S. and Texas (3 semester hours) This course examines the evolution and current state of political behavior and public policy making in the U.S. and Texas. Topics discussed will include the constitutions, federalism, intergovernmental relations, voting, elections, political parties, public opinion, and interest groups. (3-0) SGOVT 2302 (GOVT 2302) Political Institutions in the U.S. and Texas (3 semester hours) This course explores the primary institutions of U.S. and Texas government. It examines the bureaucracy as well as the executive, legislative, and judicial branches of government at the state and federal level. (3-0) SGOVT 2305 (GOVT 2305) American National Government (3 semester hours) Survey of American national government, politics, and constitutional development. (3-0) RGOVT 2306 (GOVT 2306) State and Local Government (3 semester hours) Survey of state and local government and politics with special reference to the constitution and politics of Texas. (3-0) RInternational Political EconomyIPEC 4396 Topics in International Political Economy (3 semester hours) Topics vary from semester to semester. May be repeated for credit (12 hours maximum). (3-0) RIPEC 4v97 Independent Study (1-6 semester hours) Provides faculty supervision for student's individual study of a topic agreed upon by the student and the faculty supervisor. May be repeated for credit (6 hours maximum). Prerequisite: Instructor consent required. This course can only be taken for Credit/No Credit. ([1-6]-0) SIPEC 4v98 Internship (1-6 semester hours) May be repeated for credit (6 hours maximum). Prerequisite: Instructor consent required. This course can only be taken for Credit/No Credit. ([1-6]-0) SInterdisciplinary Studies - Social SciencesISSS 3349 World Resources and Development (3 semester hours) Analysis of resource mobilization, technological changes and economic development from a multidisciplinary perspective. Primary focus on the problems of the less-developed countries. Topics include technology transfer, industrialization strategy, education policy, population growth, nutrition and foreign aid. (3-0) RISSS 4320 Social Entrepreneurship (3 semester hours) This course is about providing those interested in entrepreneurial ventures with primarily a social focus with the skills and knowledge necessary to accomplish their goals. The course will be seminar style and require a practicum. Topics include entrepreneurship in the nonprofit sector, entrepreneurship in political campaigns, new public management and the role of entrepreneurship in government and public services, urban planning, and geographical information sciences as a tool all entrepreneurs can use in the creation of new opportunities. (3-0) RISSS 4358 National and International Security (3 semester hours) Investigates problems associated with national and international security in the post-Cold War world. Includes analysis of the use of military force, nuclear arms, terrorism, international treaties, and the economic dimensions to national security. (3-0) RISSS 4359 Science, Technology and Society (3 semester hours) This course explores the relationship between science and democracy, then moves to an analysis of the impact of information technologies, including speculation about advances in artificial intelligence and related advances including robotics, on culture and other human institutions. The impact of biotechnology, advances in medicine and other issues are also explored. The role of ethics in the development and deployment of these technologies will be an important component of the course. Also, the presence of anti-scientific mindsets and prejudices, as manifested by various groups and diverse ideological perspectives, is examined. (3-0) RISSS 4377 Alternative Approaches to National Security (3 semester hours) There is a pressing need to reconsider how nations can best achieve security in the face of drastic changes in the international arena in the last decades of the twentieth century. The Cold War has ended, the Soviet Union has collapsed, yet regional conflicts abound, ethnic antagonisms threaten the peace, and international terrorism is still a real danger. At the same time, important progress has been made in arms reduction, international cooperation, and the spread of democracy. In the light of these changes, this course explores a variety of alternatives to the traditional threat or use of massive military force as a means for achieving national and global security. (3-0) RISSS 4v86 Special Interdisciplinary Topics in the Social Sciences (1-9 semester hours) Subject matter will vary from semester to semester. May be repeated for credit (9 hours maximum). ([1-9]-0) RISSS 4v96 CV Honors Project (1-6 semester hours) Independent study to produce a senior project under the direction of the Collegium V Honors Director. This course can only be taken Credit/No Credit. ([1-6]-0) RISSS 4v97 Independent Study in Interdisciplinary Studies (1-6 semester hours) Independent Study under a faculty member's direction. May be repeated for credit (6 maximum hours). ([1-6]-0) RPublic Affairs ManagementPA 2325 Introduction to Public Service (3 semester hours) This course is designed to give students a broad introduction to public service. Students will explore the history of public service in American life, examine the contemporary erosion of interest in public service, explore different options for public service, and draw lessons from their own experience about how to increase the likelihood that more Americans will engage in public service during their lives. The course will also explore the range of alternatives for public impact, whether through traditional political participation (voting), personal volunteering and advocacy, service on nonprofit boards, socially-responsible engagement in corporate careers, social entrepreneurship, or careers in government and nonprofits. (3-0) YPA 3304 Research Methods in Public Administration (3 semester hours) Examines methods of Public Administration research. Topics include the nature of administrative inquiry, framing a research problem, choosing a research design, developing hypotheses, sampling designs, and measuring variables. Topics will be covered as students conduct their own study. (Same as CRIM 3304 and SOC 3304) (3-0) YPA 3310 Public Administration (3 semester hours) Overview of management responsibilities, functions, and activities in government agencies within the framework of political values and organization dynamics. (Same as PSCI 3310) (3-0) SPA 3314 Financial Management (3 semester hours) Financial accounting, control, and management for efficient and effective resource use within public and nonprofit organizations. (3-0) YPA 3333 Human Resources Management (3 semester hours) Leadership, motivation, decision making, conflict resolution, performance, and other important challenges of personnel management in government organizations. (3-0) YPA 3377 Urban Planning and Policy (3 semester hours) Explores important substantive areas and concepts in the field of urban and regional planning and current urban planning and policy issues and debates. Topics include: forces that have historically guided and are currently guiding U.S. urbanization; land use, growth management, transportation and traffic congestion, economic development, housing and community development, environmental planning; legal, environmental, governmental contexts. (Same as GEOG 3377) (3-0) YPA 3378 Public Finance and Economics (3 semester hours) This course focuses on the application of economic theories to understand the role of government. Students will learn how to use the tools of microeconomics to interpret the impacts of government policies. Topics include the role of tax, public expenditure policies, public goods, externalities, social security, and regulation. (3-0) YPA 3379 Diversity in the Public Sector (3 semester hours) This course will focus on diversity beyond just race/ethnicity and gender, and examine dimensions of sexual orientation, religion, skill level, physical ability, communication styles, and multi-generations in the workplace. Understanding diversity and learning how to manage its complexity is the key focus of this class. Students will examine the importance of multiple cultures in public organizations in work teams and discuss the challenges that come with multiculturalism. Social interactions that contribute to the understanding of difference groups in diverse settings are examined. (3-0) YPA 3380 Organizations and Management in the Public Sector (3 semester hours) This course covers the major topics, issues, and contributions in the literature on organizations and management, with emphasis on applications to government and nonprofit organizations. Class readings draw from leading scholars in a variety of disciplinary traditions in order to shed light on the historical development of the literature. Additionally, the course material will review some of the contemporary approaches to the study of organizations. (3-0) YPA 4340 Creating High Performance Organizations (3 semester hours) Explores the managerial behaviors required to build high levels of performance necessary in contemporary work organizations. Explores performance management, employee engagement and high quality services, and new discoveries in the neurosciences and psychology that enhance human well- being while creating more productive work environments. (3-0) YPA 4345 Negotiation and Conflict Resolution (3 semester hours) This course will introduce students to the theory and practice of negotiations in the public sector. Students analyze the parties, issues and strategies in negotiations and will take part in many negotiation simulations to develop their skills in issues identification and problem resolution. The course will begin with the study of two-party negotiations and progress to multi-party, multi-issue negotiations. (Same as PSCI 4345) (3-0) TPA 4350 Politics of Bureaucracy (3 semester hours) This course will provide an in-depth knowledge of some of the major issues in bureaucracy. It focuses on understanding the internal processes and politics as well as some of the external factors that play an important role in the dynamic world of public administration. This course will include varied topics such as administrators as policymakers, the role of ethics and accountability, and external intervention in the daily activities of the policymakers in order to explore the challenges faced by public administrators in the organization and management of public agencies. (3-0) RPA 4351 Urban Management (3 semester hours) Examination of ways in which the fiscal and administrative policies of local government shape the structure of opportunities and incentives in urban areas. (3-0) RPA 4355 Nonprofit Organizations (3 semester hours) This course addresses the basic concepts of the trillion dollar nonprofit sector (also known as the Third Sector) that includes education, research, health care, art, religion, social services, advocacy, legal services, international assistance, foundations and mutual benefit organizations. This comprehensive course provides a thorough introduction and understanding to the sector with a focus on the history of nonprofit organizations in America, qualifications for charitable groups, and international comparisons. (3-0) YPA 4360 Ethics in Public Administration (3 semester hours) Examines the relationship between ethical choices and the decision making of public managers. The ethics of organizational policies and public policies are also examined. (3-0) YPA 4370 Leadership (3 semester hours) Explores a full range of leadership theories and modern views of requisites for success in positions of leadership. Students will take from this course knowledge of leadership theories and practical knowledge for applying leadership principles in any organizational setting. (3-0) YPA 4386 Social Policy in Modern Societies (3 semester hours) Examines the controversies and research concerning the development of welfare states and public social provision. Particular emphasis is placed on the U.S. public social spending system, in historical and comparative perspective. Explanations of developments in social policies and an assessment of their applicability to the American welfare state and those of other societies are considered. (Same as SOC 4386) (3-0) RPA 4396 Topics in Public Administration (3 semester hours) Subject matters of current interest. Topics vary from semester to semester. May be repeated for credit (9 hours maximum). (3-0) RPA 4v97 Independent Study in Public Administration (1-9 semester hours) Independent study under a faculty member's direction. May be repeated for credit (9 hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-9]-0) SPA 4v98 Internship (1-6 semester hours) May be repeated for credit (6 hours maximum). Instructor consent required. This course can only be taken Credit/No Credit. ([1-6]-0) SPA 4v99 Senior Honors in Public Administration (1-6 semester hours) For students conducting independent research for honors theses or projects. Instructor consent required. May be repeated for credit (6 hours maximum). ([1-6]-0) RPolitical SciencePSCI 3301 Political Theory (3 semester hours) An examination of perennial issues in political thought through a study of the work and research methods of selected theorists in the history of political thought. (3-0) YPSCI 3303 Civil Liberties (3 semester hours) An examination of the development of constitutional law in the area of civil liberties. (3-0) TPSCI 3306 Political Economy (3 semester hours) Investigates various conceptual perspectives for understanding the relationship between economic processes and political institutions. Focuses particular attention on the normative and policy debates separating conservative, liberal, and radical schools of thought. (3-0) RPSCI 3310 Public Administration (3 semester hours) Overview of management responsibilities, functions, and activities in government agencies within the framework of political values and organizational dynamics. (Same as PA 3310) (3-0) SPSCI 3322 Constitutional Law (3 semester hours) Students will examine the methods used in legal research, the evolution of the Constitution of the United States, and the role of the Supreme Court of the United States in the development of the American constitutional system. (3-0) YPSCI 3323 American Federalism (3 semester hours) An examination of how local, state, and national governments share power in such important areas as education, environmental regulation, public finance, welfare, housing and community development, and criminal justice. There will also be discussions of recent innovations, such as judicial supervision and deregulation. (3-0) RPSCI 3325 American Public Policy (3 semester hours) This course examines the making of public policy in the U.S. political system. Students will examine the various public policy models and case studies related to specific policy areas. All students are required to write a policy related term paper to fulfill the University's writing requirement. Prerequisites: GOVT 2301 and GOVT 2302 or instructor consent required. (3-0) YPSCI 3326 Politics and Business (3 semester hours) An investigation of the role played by business in American politics. Particular attention will be focused on the regulatory process and the changing relationship between business and government in it. (3-0) TPSCI 3327 American Foreign Policy (3 semester hours) Examines the way in which policy-making process structures the premises, concepts, and objectives of U.S. policy and the U.S. role in international politics. (3-0) RPSCI 3328 International Relations (3 semester hours) This course explores the power relationships among national actors and organizations. Topics may include origins of the state system, international security, globalization, north-south relations, ecological security, and the implications of world demographic patterns. (3-0) RPSCI 3333 Political Behavior (3 semester hours) This course addresses the questions of why some people vote but others do not, how individuals make political choices, and how people participate in other ways. It examines the behavioral approach to the study of government and politics, the major theories of political behavior, and the effects of long-term changes, socialization processes, media use and political attitudes and institutions. (3-0) YPSCI 3340 Film and Politics (3 semester hours) This course examines the role of one form of media in shaping political discourse. It examines the role of documentaries, drama, and comedy in shaping, exposing, and reflecting public political sentiments of the day. (3-0) RPSCI 3350 Comparative Politics (3 semester hours) An analysis of political life in different cultural and national settings. Considers different theoretical approaches to comparative politics, and differences and similarities in types of political culture, political participation, political institutions, and citizen well-being and government effectiveness. (3-0) RPSCI 3351 Comparative Courts and Law (3 semester hours) Examines the roles of constitutions and law across a wide range of countries. Relatedly considers theoretical approaches and research methodologies used to advance understanding of the courts. (3-0) RPSCI 3353 Law and Gender (3 semester hours) Examines how legal equality and gender discrimination have been defined, implemented and challenged in both international and U.S. law and policy. We will examine such topics as the development of international norms of women's rights, hurdles in implementing legal norms in the domestic context, and the factors that influence compliance. We will examine both case studies and empirical research, from a U.S. and a comparative perspective. (3-0) RPSCI 3355 Legal Reasoning (3 semester hours) Examines various theories of the philosophy of law and various case studies of the interaction between law and society. Students will develop the critical thinking and methodological skills necessary for success on the LSAT, success in law school and success in the legal profession. Prerequisite: Instructor consent required. (3-0) YPSCI 3362 The American Political Institutions (3 semester hours) This course examines the constitutional foundations and historical development of the Congress, the presidency, the executive, and the courts. Attention will be paid to both the interactions of these institutions, research methodologies employed in examining these institutions, and the internal workings of each. Prerequisites: GOVT 2301 and GOVT 2302 or instructor consent required. (3-0) YPSCI 3364 Campaigns and Elections (3 semester hours) An examination of the electoral process and the changing role that political parties have played in the development of American political institutions and public policy. (3-0) TPSCI 4305 Political Research (3 semester hours) Introduces students to how to develop and answer interesting questions about citizenship, governance, and politics. Covers basic research skills and their application to real world political questions and problems. Course is recommended for students pursuing independent study or theses in the political and social sciences, or those considering law and professional programs. Prerequisite: EPPS 3405 or equivalent. (3-0) YPSCI 4307 Predicting Politics (3 semester hours) This course covers how social scientists understand and predict political events. We will examine how to predict and explain events like riots, civil wars, intra- and inter-state conflict, terrorism, and elections. There is a growing need in the policy, human rights, and foreign policy communities for these types of forecasts for early warning systems, humanitarian aid allocation, human rights monitoring, foreign policy decision-making, and conflict mediation. The course focuses on understanding, applying, evaluating, and validating commonly used prediction methods of political events. All students are required to complete assignments that fulfill the University's writing requirement. Prerequisite: EPPS 3405. (3-0) TPSCI 4311 The Political Economy of Modern Texas (3 semester hours) This course offers an advanced analysis of the political and economic trends that shape modern Texas. Students will explore the roots of the current political and economic framework in addition to the contemporary challenges that the state confronts by examining academic works and interacting with state policymakers. Instructor consent required. (3-0) YPSCI 4312 Politics of East Asia (3 semester hours) This course examines and compares the politics of East Asian nations in their political institutions, actors and issues. Students will study extensively the history, political geography, political economy, development and democratization of the countries in the region. (3-0) RPSCI 4313 Politics of China (3 semester hours) This course focuses on China's political history, the three political systems of modern China and how it is connected with the world, in particular the United States. Students will study China's political and economic development, its role in the global economy and the potential for a new world order. The course addresses special issues, especially the democratization of Greater China including Taiwan, Hong Kong, and Macao and China's own democratic experiments in local village elections. (3-0) RPSCI 4314 Political Economy of East Asia (3 semester hours) This course examines the political economy of East Asia with primary focus on China, Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, Singapore and Hong Kong. Students will study the region's development models, institutions and international organizations and analyze the rapid growth of its economy and political influence. (3-0) RPSCI 4321 Media and Politics (3 semester hours) This course will give students a background in the development of the press as a political institution and the logistics of news-making and coverage. We will examine the theoretical and actual roles played by the press in public affairs to develop understanding of current and persistent problems of press performance, such as bias, independence, manipulation by government and special interests, and the quest for profits at the expense of public service. (3-0) RPSCI 4326 Political Parties and Interest Groups (3 semester hours) Studies the development and organization of political parties and interest groups, and their activities in campaigns and policy making and implementation, in the United States. Political and legal issues in the regulation of nominating processes, campaign finance, lobbying, redistricting, and related areas are addressed. (3-0) RPSCI 4329 Global Politics (3 semester hours) This course will introduce students to the study of global politics. It will explore the teachings from comparative politics and international relations in examining changing global relationships and power structures, and the research methodologies used in this analysis. (3-0) YPSCI 4330 The Bible and Politics (3 semester hours) An investigation of the Bible as a political text. Includes discussion of the political context and themes of the Bible and analysis of political theories based upon biblical perspectives. (3-0) RPSCI 4331 Mexican Politics (3 semester hours) This course explores the changing face of the Mexican political economy. Topics will include the evolution and decline of the PRI, the revolt in Chiapas, NAFTA, Mexico's role in Latin America, and the changing nature of its relations with the U.S. (3-0) TPSCI 4332 Latin American Politics (3 semester hours) After a brief review of the region's history from conquest and independence up to the 20th century, the course will include discussions of current issues confronting the region. These issues may include U.S./Latin American relations including NAFTA, demographic changes, religion, guerilla groups, revolution, and the transition from authoritarianism to democracy. (3-0) TPSCI 4341 Politics of the Judicial Process (3 semester hours) The study of judicial decision making, the political impact of court decisions, and the role of lawyers and judges at the local, regional, and national levels. (3-0) TPSCI 4342 Legislative Decision Making (3 semester hours) This course examines the politics of the Texas Legislature in detail. It is offered only during legislative sessions and uses the session as a backdrop to examine policy making and politics in this branch of state government. Instructor consent required. (3-0) TPSCI 4343 Congress and Public Policy (3 semester hours) This course explores the history and development of both the place of Congress in the Constitutional order and the internal structures and behaviors of the legislative process. Topics include congressional-presidential relations, elections, representation, committees, parties and leadership, collective action and coalition building, and Congress' capacity to deliberate and make public policy "in the public interest." (3-0) TPSCI 4344 Race and Redistricting (3 semester hours) Examines the politics and process of redrawing congressional and state legislative district lines, notably how this process is influenced by politics as well as by important principles and laws. Reviews the history of redistricting in the U.S. House of Representatives and considers recent redistricting and the role of race in this process. (3-0) RPSCI 4345 Negotiation and Conflict Resolution (3 semester hours) This course will introduce students to the theory and practice of negotiations in the public sector. Students analyze the parties, issues, and strategies in negotiations and will take part in many negotiation simulations to develop their skills in issues identification and problem resolution. The course will begin with the study of two-party negotiations and progress to multi-party, multi-issue negotiations. (Same as PA 4345) (3-0) TPSCI 4346 War and Peace (3 semester hours) This course examines the processes of conflict resolution and peacemaking in the modern world by analyzing emerging trends and patterns in global conflict, and the prospects for peace in an evolving world order. The course will consider the roles of the individual; social movements and institutions; culture and values; and state, regional and international institutions in making war and peace. In addition, it will examine the causes and prevention of war, ethnic conflict, terrorism, and security issues. (3-0) TPSCI 4347 The War on Drugs (3 semester hours) This course examines the war on drugs within the context of democratic stability. Alternative state responses to the drug trade will be covered, with attention to the consequences of those policies on democratic stability. Substantively, we will deal with these questions within the context of individual democracies in Latin America and in other regions. (3-0) TPSCI 4348 Terrorism (3 semester hours) This course, focusing on cases of domestic terrorism, examines terrorism within the context of democratic stability. Alternative state responses to these crises will also be covered, with attention to the consequences of those policies on democratic stability. Substantively, we will deal with these questions within the context of individual democracies in Latin America and in other regions of the world. (3-0) TPSCI 4349 The Politics of the Bureaucratic Process (3 semester hours) This course analyzes the role of administrative agencies in democratic policy making. Discusses the internal, procedural determinants of policy decision making as well as the interactions between administrative agencies and other branches of government. Topics may include the development of the contemporary administrative state, administrative rule making, and control of administrative processes by Congress, the president, and the judiciary. (3-0) RPSCI 4352 Modern Individualism (3 semester hours) An investigation of the development and criticism of the modern concept of the individual in political philosophy. Among the issues to be considered are the relationship between the mind and the body in the individual, the nature of reason, passions, and instincts, the origins of morality and justice, the nature of political obligation, and the relationship between the individual and society. Prerequisite: Instructor consent required. (3-0) TPSCI 4354 Contemporary Political Thought (3 semester hours) Investigates the moral and political controversies shaping contemporary political thought. Considers such issues as legitimacy, justice, distribution, and representation. (3-0) RPSCI 4356 International Political Economy (3 semester hours) Focuses on the interaction of global politics and economics, including international trade, the underpinnings of international currency exchange, multinational corporations, globalization, and other topics. Prerequisite: PSCI 3328 or PSCI 4329 or undergraduate coursework in international economics. (3-0) RPSCI 4357 Human Rights and the Rule of the Law (3 semester hours) This course focuses on the development of norms involving international human rights and law as well as major and competing theories that sometimes weigh against the development of universal human rights. Also examines the effectiveness of the courts and law, including international courts and truth commissions, in the area of human rights. (3-0) RPSCI 4359 Globalization and International Conflict (3 semester hours) An examination of how recent trends in globalization affect the use of force in international relations, with particular emphasis on whether globalization makes war less likely. The course examines how the calculus of war is affected by economic interdependence, social and cultural integration, environmental pressures, demographic shifts, non-state actors, democratization, and attempts at global governance. Concludes with case studies of recent conflicts. (3-0) TPSCI 4360 The Political Economy of Multinational Corporations (3 semester hours) In addition to the historical rise of international firms, the course covers the economic theory of the firm, multinational corporations (MNCs) as political actors, the dynamics of foreign direct investment, and the relationship of MNCs to developing countries. The aim of the course is to understand the causes and effects of the behavior of transnational corporations, particularly in regard to economic policy. All students are required to complete assignments that fulfill the University's writing requirement. (3-0) TPSCI 4364 Civil Rights Law and Society (3 semester hours) Examines the development of civil rights law, and how social ideologies are reflected and reproduced in race and sex discrimination law. Explores how power is exercised through law, and how legal change is pursued as a strategy for social reform. Topics include antislavery and the judicial process, the Reconstruction Amendments, the role of the Supreme Court in U.S. society, school segregation cases, and hate speech. (3-0) YPSCI 4365 Law and Medicine (3 semester hours) Examines the relationship between law and medical ethics. Emphasis is placed on court cases involving reproductive privacy, wrongful life, informed consent, the right to treatment, and the right to refuse treatment. (3-0) TPSCI 4368 Leadership (3 semester hours) This course examines the topic of political leadership. Students examine traditional and contemporary theories of political leadership and interact with current political leaders through seminar discussions. Instructor consent required. (3-0) TPSCI 4370 Policy Making Process (3 semester hours) A multidisciplinary exploration of the history, ideas, and institutions that set the stage for politics. This course is part of the Archer Program and is restricted to Archer Fellows. Prerequisite: Permission of Director of Archer Program required. (3-0) RPSCI 4372 Advocacy in Applied Settings (3 semester hours) This is a course on communication and advocacy. Students examine how people make cases for their needs in organizations, especially governmental and political ones. This course is part of the Archer Program and is restricted to Archer Fellows. Prerequisite: Permission of Director of Archer Program required. (3-0) RPSCI 4373 Beyond Congress and White House (3 semester hours) This course explores the sources and use of power in Washington. It focuses attention upon such issues as the constitutional and technological limits to power, power and the media, and the struggle for control over national memory and language. This course is part of the Archer Program and is restricted to Archer Fellows. Prerequisite: Permission of Director of Archer Program required. (3-0) RPSCI 4396 Selected Topics in Government and Politics (3 semester hours) Subject will vary from semester to semester. May be repeated for credit (9 hours maximum). (3-0) RPSCI 4v66 Mock Trial (1-6 semester hours) Examines a hypothetical case. Students will learn the Rules of Evidence and will simulate an actual trial with attorneys and witnesses. Students compete with Mock Trial teams from other universities at regional and national tournaments. Instructor consent required. May be repeated for credit (6 hours maximum). (3-0) YPSCI 4v67 Moot Court (1-6 semester hours) Course examines a hypothetical case which contains two constitutional issues. Based on approximately 20 actual precedents, students are expected to prepare arguments supporting both the petitioner and respondents on each constitutional issue. Students compete in tournaments against advocates from other universities. Instructor consent required. May be repeated for credit (6 hours maximum). (3-0) SPSCI 4v76 Archer Center Washington Internship (3-6 semester hours) This course is part of the Archer Program and is restricted to Archer Fellows. May be repeated for credit (6 hours maximum). Prerequisite: Permission of Director of Archer Program required. ([3-6]-0) RPSCI 4v97 Independent Study in Government and Politics (1-6 semester hours) Independent study under a faculty member's direction. May be repeated for credit (6 hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-6]-0) SPSCI 4v98 Internship (1-6 semester hours) May be repeated for credit (6 hours maximum). Instructor consent required. This course can only be taken Credit/No Credit. ([1-6]-0) SPSCI 4v99 Senior Honors in Government and Politics (1-6 semester hours) For students conducting independent research for honors theses or projects. Instructor consent required. May be repeated for credit (6 hours maximum). ([1-6]-0) SSociologySOC 1301 (SOCI 1301) Introduction to Sociology (3 semester hours) An overview of the sociological perspective and its application to social research and social policy. (3-0) YSOC 2300 Introduction to Gender Studies (3 semester hours) An introduction to the way gender shapes individuals, social institutions and culture. Examines gender, class, sexuality, race/ethnicity, and nationality as interactive systems. Topics include biological arguments about gender and sexuality; the cultural construction of gender; the psychology of sex roles; the ways gender shapes families, workplaces and other social institutions. (Same as GST 2300) (3-0) YSOC 2319 (SOCI 2319) Race, Gender and Class (3 semester hours) The study of how race, gender, and class systems are interwoven. Explores how the multiple statuses of individuals (race, gender, and class) combine to produce packages of privileges and disadvantages. Topics include the social meanings of color, sex/gender systems in historical and contemporary perspectives, theories of power, stereotyping, affirmative action, race and gender in U.S. law, and welfare debates. (3-0) YSOC 3303 Classical Social Theory (3 semester hours) Introduction to the classic theorists in sociology, primarily works by Karl Marx, Max Weber, Emile Durkheim, and Georg Simmel. This course examines how these early theorists defined and described society within their own social contexts, as well as how we derive meaning from their writings to understand and explain issues of twenty-first century societies. Prerequisite: SOC 1301. (3-0) YSOC 3304 Research Methods in Sociology (3 semester hours) Examines methods of sociological research. Topics include the nature of scientific inquiry, framing a research problem, choosing a research design, developing hypotheses, sampling designs, and measuring variables. Topics will be covered as students conduct their own study. (Same as CRIM 3304 and PA 3304) (3-0) YSOC 3306 Research and Writing for Sociological Practice (3 semester hours) This course examines the relationship between theory and research and will require students to develop a research project that focuses on an area of sociological practice including but not limited to race and ethnic relations, education, the environment, social movements, stratification, the family, health care and workplace diversity. Implications for public policy will also be considered. Satisfies the Advanced Writing and research methods requirements for sociology majors. Prerequisites: SOC 1301 and SOC 3303. (3-0) YSOC 3314 Individual and Society (3 semester hours) The study of the relationship among the individual, social structure, and culture. Explores self-concept and personality, the process of socialization, role-taking and social interaction, norms, values, group membership, and group processes. (3-0) RSOC 3321 Deviance (3 semester hours) Analysis of historical and contemporary perspectives which propose the causes, consequences, and cures for deviance. Description of theories, research, and public policy associated with efforts to control deviant behavior and deviant groups, and to establish normalcy. (3-0) RSOC 3322 Contemporary Social Issues (3 semester hours) An overview of how sociological concepts and approaches can be applied to the study of the causes and consequences of various social issues in contemporary society. Topics may include poverty, crime, violence, social isolation, urban decay, changes in the family, consumerism, and health disparities. (3-0) RSOC 3325 Race, Ethnicity, and Community (3 semester hours) An examination of the role race and ethnicity play in the social stratification of Americans in U.S. social institutions, including the economy, education, health care, and government, and of ways in which public policy addresses disadvantages of stratification. (3-0) RSOC 3331 Sociology of Education (3 semester hours) An examination of how educational institutions reflect and, in turn, influence social, economic, and political forces in the larger society, with an emphasis on education in the United States. Major topics will include the relationship between schooling and social inequality; how public policies such as Brown v. Board of Education and No Child Left Behind have shaped American education; current public debates over educational equity and effectiveness; and the challenges facing public education in post-industrial society. (3-0) RSOC 3333 Religion in Society (3 semester hours) This course examines religion as a social institution, its impact on other social institutions, including the economy, education, and government. (3-0) RSOC 3334 The World's Professional Religions (3 semester hours) The world's recognized religions are not only systems of beliefs. They are also organized, with professional staff, literary and scholarly traditions, finances, and methods of sustaining and perpetuating themselves. This course reviews the major Asian and Western traditions from the perspective of how their main ideas and practices reflect and support this larger organizational context. Religious traditions and philosophies studied include Judaism, Christianity, Islam, Vedanta, Buddhism, Jainism, Confucianism, Legalism, and Shinto. (3-0) RSOC 3336 Culture Regions (3 semester hours) Survey of a major region of the world as defined by a set of common cultural traditions and institutions such as Latin America, the Middle East, Sub-Saharan Africa, or South Asia. Each time the course is offered, it will review the key cultural, social, economic, and political features of the region being addressed. The specific region to be studied will be announced in advance, and the course may be repeated for credit when a different culture region is treated. (3-0) YSOC 3337 Media and Politics (3 semester hours) This course examines how American media, in a variety of forms, direct political debate, influence decision-making and agenda-setting, and facilitate the flow of political news and information in the United States. (3-0) RSOC 3338 Japanese Culture and Society (3 semester hours) This course provides an introduction to the key cultural, social, economic, and political features of Japan. The course will cover traditional/historical as well as contemporary aspects. (3-0) RSOC 3339 Media and Society (3 semester hours) This course examines the role of the mass media in contemporary society. The course will take an integrated approach to studying mass media of various types and explore different dimensions of the media process as well as different types of media. (3-0) RSOC 3341 Internet and Society (3 semester hours) This course examines the ways that the Internet technologies are affecting our everyday life, culture, institutions, groups, and identity, dealing with issues about the representation, identity, production, consumption and regulation of the Internet. (3-0) RSOC 3342 The Life Cycle (3 semester hours) An examination of the institutions that shape the course of people's lives from birth to death. Topics include primary socialization, family, schools, peer groups, occupations, retirement, and death. (3-0) RSOC 3343 Sociology of the Family (3 semester hours) Trends in family life are examined with special attention to how these relate to changes in men's and women's roles. Topics include sex-role socialization, division of labor in the household, sexuality, emotional aspects of marriage, marital power and decision making, and divorce. (3-0) RSOC 3344 Film and Society (3 semester hours) Utilizes full-length commercial films and documentaries to illuminate and demonstrate sociological concepts, phenomena and important contemporary social issues. The course also assesses the impact of films on American culture and society. (3-0) RSOC 3346 Sociology of Sport (3 semester hours) Analyzes sport and its place in the culture of contemporary societies. Focuses on how sport and sport experiences are related to social development, social relations and major spheres of social life such as the economy, education and religion. (3-0) RSOC 3347 Religion in International Development (3 semester hours) An examination of the involvement of contemporary world religions in the social and economic development of their home countries and regions, and, through these, their involvement in development of international public policy concentrated on development. (3-0) RSOC 3352 Gender Roles (3 semester hours) Examines female and male gender roles in both historic and contemporary contexts. Topics may include the sex/gender distinction, gender socialization, masculinities, the sexual division of labor, gender and power, and the interaction of gender with race, class, and sexuality. (3-0) RSOC 3354 Gender, Society, and Politics (3 semester hours) Addresses the influence of gender on the distribution of public goods and the way gender, interacting with race and class, shapes social, political, and economic institutions. Introduces students to traditional notions of rights and citizenship as conceptual underpinnings for contemporary political and legal debates (on welfare, reproductive rights, childcare, job segregation, women in the military, prostitution). (Same as GST 3303) (3-0) YSOC 4302 Class, Status, and Power (3 semester hours) The nature of systems of differentiation and ranking in societies and their consequences; examination of how prestige, occupational skills, education, and economic assets are used to create class distinctions in the United States; the impact of class on life chances; concepts and processes of social mobility; and the influence of power inconsistencies on income, wealth, and status. Prerequisite: SOC 1301 or SOC 2319 or SOC 3303. (3-0) YSOC 4337 Immigrants and Immigration in U.S. Society (3 semester hours) The course examines the assimilation into U.S. society and its main public social institutions of immigrants arriving after 1965 with a focus on the two largest groups: Mexicans and Asians, as well as immigrants from the Middle East. The course considers the effects of the economy and immigration law and policy on assimilation. Other topics include the impact of these 'newest' immigrants on the racial and ethnic as well as cultural diversification of the U.S. population, the second generation, and the future of immigrants and immigration in U.S. society. (3-0) RSOC 4355 Social Movements (3 semester hours) The structure, causes, and consequences of change-oriented social movements. Historical and contemporary case studies, including the American labor movement, the civil rights movement, and the feminist movement. (3-0) RSOC 4356 Social Welfare Policy (3 semester hours) Explores the origins of social welfare institutions, programs, and services in American and European societies. Reviews critiques of social welfare policies from diverse ideological and political perspectives as well as recent studies of program implementation and effectiveness. Examines the politics of social welfare reform. (3-0) RSOC 4357 Drugs, Alcohol and Society (3 semester hours) This course examines the societal influences that lead to illicit drug and alcohol use and misuse, as well as the social consequences of those actions. The focus is on the social construction of addiction rather than on individual pathological behaviors. The relationship between individual and group behavior, and social structure is also explored. (3-0) RSOC 4361 Law and Society (3 semester hours) Analyzes laws and legal institutions as forms of regulation and social control. Explores the links between legal decision making, social structure, and cultural knowledge systems. Theoretical perspectives on law and society, law and ideology, the relation of law to public policy, and legal change as a strategy of social reform are explored. (3-0) RSOC 4369 Public Health and Society (3 semester hours) An overview of public and population health, with an emphasis on the relationship between social forces and health. Topics to be covered include the history of public health institutions and occupations; the determinants and social components of infectious and noninfectious diseases, including major public health epidemics and the response to them; public health rates, risk factors, indicators, and vital statistics; public health law, policy, and ethics; and the effects of social forces on health, including social inequality, culture and lifestyle, and environmental and occupational influences on health. Particular emphasis will be devoted to health disparities in the U. S. and globally. (3-0) RSOC 4370 Poverty and Unemployment (3 semester hours) The historical, economic, political, and cultural context of poverty and unemployment in the United States, and the social and governmental response to these conditions. (3-0) RSOC 4371 Mental Health and Illness (3 semester hours) Explores the diverse, disturbing, disruptive, and disabling phenomena of mental disorders. Topics to be covered include the classification of mental disorders, the etiology and epidemiology of mental illnesses, and the history of societal responses to mentally ill, including public policies. (3-0) RSOC 4372 Health and Illness (3 semester hours) An examination of the social conditions and correlates of diseases, the social behavior of the sick, health institutions and professions, and the formulation and implementation of health policies and programs. (3-0) RSOC 4375 Gender and Work (3 semester hours) A sociological analysis of historical trends and current patterns of gender inequality in paid and domestic work; examination of theories and research related to the role of gender in shaping labor market opportunities, experiences, and rewards; identification of various forms of workplace discrimination and potential remedies. (3-0) RSOC 4377 Aging Society (3 semester hours) A study of the aging of society, including the biomedical, social, economic, and political forces shaping societal aging and public policies for the aged. (3-0) RSOC 4378 Work and Occupations (3 semester hours) The structure of work, occupations, and industry with an emphasis on the rise of management and the modern corporation, productivity and work performance, the growth and decline of labor unions, and the emergence of service and high-tech industries. (3-0) RSOC 4380 Women, Work and Family (3 semester hours) An examination of the relationship between women's work for pay in the marketplace and their unpaid work in homes across time and in different cultures. Topics include historical separation of work from home under capitalism; division of household labor between men and women; public policy initiatives (socialized/commercial housework and daycare, family leave, telecommuting, part-time and flex-time work) designed to make juggling work and family easier; the ways class, race, and ethnicity constrain and enable women's choices. (Same as GST 4380) (3-0) RSOC 4384 Social Epidemiology (3 semester hours) A non-technical overview of epidemiology and its role in public health theory and practice, with emphasis on the social dimensions of health, illness, and injury. Topics include the history and conceptual basis for epidemiology; the basic tools of epidemiologic analysis, including case definitions and populations, incidence, prevalence, and case-fatality rates; public health surveillance and measures of health status; methodological approaches to inference, association, and causation; and the analysis of harm, benefit, cost, and intervention effectiveness. (3-0) RSOC 4385 Health and Illness in Global and Cross-national Perspective (3 semester hours) A review of frameworks for understanding global health issues and the improvement of health at a population level. Topics include measurement of (and strategies for reducing) the burden of morbidity and mortality; the relationships among culture, political economy, and health; comparative health care systems and health policies; the relationship between economic development and health; and the role of global governmental and nongovernmental institutions in promoting health. Course concepts will be examined in the context of case studies of global epidemics and the response to them. (3-0) RSOC 4386 Social Policy in Modern Societies (3 semester hours) Examines the controversies and research concerning the development of welfare states and public social provision. Particular emphasis is placed on the U.S. public social spending system, in historical and comparative perspective. Explanations of developments in social policies and an assessment of their applicability to the American welfare state and those of other societies are considered. (Same as PA 4386) (3-0) RSOC 4396 Selected Topics in Sociology (3 semester hours) Subject matter will vary from semester to semester. May be repeated for credit (9 hours maximum). (3-0) RSOC 4v97 Independent Study in Sociology (1-6 semester hours) Independent study under a faculty member's direction. May be repeated for credit (6 hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-6]-0) SSOC 4v98 Internship (1-6 semester hours) May repeat for credit (6 hours maximum). Instructor consent required. This course can only be taken credit/no credit. ([1-6]-0) SSOC 4v99 Senior Honors in Sociology (1-6 semester hours) For students conducting independent research for honors theses or projects. May be repeated for credit (6 hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-6]-0) SSocial SciencesSOCS 2v95 Individual Instruction in the Social Sciences (1-6 semester hours) Individual study under a faculty member's direction. May be repeated for credit. Instructor consent required. ([1-6]-0) RSOCS 3111 Careers in the Social Sciences (1 semester hour) This one-credit course is designed to provide social sciences majors and those interested in the social sciences with information and skills that will help them select and pursue a career in their major or a related field. (1-0) YSOCS 3361 Social Issues and Ethics in Computer Science and Engineering (3 semester hours) This course exposes students to major theoretical approaches and modes of reasoning about ethics while exploring a range of important professional and ethical issues in computing and engineering, and the interrelationship between the computing and engineering professions and important elements of social systems. Issues of professional ethics, computer crime and privacy, intellectual property, the balance between the acceptability of risk and constraints such as cost, scheduling, safety and quality, the role of globalization and various important constitutional issues are all explored by drawing upon engineering and computing case studies. (Same as ECS 3361) (3-0) YSOCS 3v96 Selected Topics in the Social Sciences (1-3 semester hours) Subject matter will vary from semester to semester. May be repeated for credit (9 hours maximum). ([1-3]-0) RSOCS 4320 Social Entrepreneurship (3 semester hours) This course is about providing those interested in entrepreneurial ventures with primarily a social focus with the skills and knowledge necessary to accomplish their goals. The course will be seminar style and require a practicum. Topics include entrepreneurship in the nonprofit sector, entrepreneurship in political campaigns, new public management and the role of entrepreneurship in government and public services, urban planning, and geographical information sciences as a tool all entrepreneurs can use in the creation of new opportunities. (3-0) RSOCS 4v98 Pre-Law Internship (3-6 semester hours) An internship with law firms or judges that will expose students to legal issues and to the practice of law. An excellent exposure to the legal profession. May repeat for credit (6 hours maximum). Instructor consent required. This course can only be taken Credit/No Credit. ([3-6]-0) S




