


Historical Studies (Print Version)









UT Dallas 2013 Undergraduate Catalog
School of Arts and Humanities
Historical Studies (BA)
Students who complete the major in Historical Studies may design distinctive degree programs by selecting among courses in historical and philosophical methods and approaches, traditional historical surveys, and specific historical and philosophical topics. Students are encouraged to focus their work in Historical Studies on a particular time or place, a significant theme, topic, or problem, or an approach to learning such as literature, the arts, ideas, science and technology, or the social sciences. Students may also be certified to teach history and/or social studies and/or English.
Since the following catalog course descriptions are very general, students are urged to consult the detailed course descriptions available on the web site for the School of Arts and Humanities.
Courses in Historical Studies are open to all students in the university.
Bachelor of Arts in Historical Studies
Degree Requirements (120 hours)
I. Core Curriculum Requirements: 42 hours1
Communication: 6 hours
3 hours Communication (RHET 1302)
3 hours Communication Elective (HUMA 3300)
Social and Behavioral Sciences: 15 hours
6 semester credit hours Government (GOVT 2301 and GOVT 2302)
6 hours American History
3 hours Social and Behavioral Science Elective
Humanities and Fine Arts: 6 hours
3 hours Fine Arts
3 hours Humanities
Mathematics and Quantitative Reasoning: 6 hours
Science: 9 hours including at least one course with a substantial laboratory component
II. Major Requirements, Lower-Division: 3 hours
PHIL 1301 Introduction to Philosophy or equivalent
III. Major Requirements, Upper-Division: 42 hours
Major Core Courses: 6 hours
HIST 3301 Historical Inquiry
HUMA 3300 Reading and Writing Texts2
Major Distribution and Elective Courses: 24 hours
3 hours of upper-division courses from each of the following groups:
European Historical Studies
Asian, African, and Latin American Historical Studies
Studies in Philosophy and Intellectual History
Historical Studies with content before 1800
12 hours of upper-division Historical Studies electives
Major-Related Courses: 12 hours
Students may select any combination of upper-division courses in Art and Performance, Art History, Visual Arts, Arts and Technology, Communications, Creative Writing, Dance, Drama, Emerging Media and Communication, Film Studies, Humanities, Literature and Language, and/or Music.
IV. Elective Requirements: 33 hours
Free Electives: 33 hours
Both upper-and lower-division courses may be used as electives, but students must complete at least 51 hours of upper-division courses to qualify for graduation.
1. Curriculum Requirements can be fulfilled by other approved courses from accredited institutions of higher education. The courses listed in parentheses are recommended as the most efficient way to satisfy both Core Curriculum and Major Requirements at UT Dallas.
2. A required Major course that also fulfills a Core Curriculum requirement.
Updated: 2019-08-09 13:11:03 v2.be83a4




