



Naveen Jindal School of Management - UT Dallas 2022 Undergraduate Catalog - The University of Texas at Dallas































Jump to content
Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Catalog Home 
Undergraduate Catalogs 


2022 Undergraduate Catalog2021 Undergraduate Catalog2020 Undergraduate Catalog2019 Undergraduate Catalog2018 Undergraduate Catalog2017 Undergraduate Catalog2016 Undergraduate Catalog


 
Graduate Catalogs 


2022 Graduate Catalog2021 Graduate Catalog2020 Graduate Catalog2019 Graduate Catalog2018 Graduate Catalog2017 Graduate Catalog2016 Graduate Catalog









UT Dallas 2022 Undergraduate Catalog
Naveen Jindal School of Management
The Naveen Jindal School of Management's mission is to meet the challenges of a rapidly changing, technology driven, global society by partnering with the business community to:

Conduct research enhancing management knowledge;
Deliver high quality management education to a diverse group of undergraduate and graduate students and practicing executives;
Develop, innovate and continuously improve programs advancing management education and practice.

The Naveen Jindal School of Management is committed to providing our students with an outstanding educational experience that will expand and hone their skill sets, help them become leaders of business and leave them with strong career prospects. Focusing on the rapidly changing challenges of our technology-driven global society, many of the School's programs have been instituted in response to requests from businesses and designed to meet the needs of tomorrow's industry. Our programs stress innovations in the latest technologies while providing a foundation in the basics of business management.
The Bachelor of Science degree in Accounting provides students a broad-based education that balances conceptual with pragmatic knowledge and exposes accounting students to other related areas. The objective of the program is to develop professionals who understand the role of information in organizations and financial markets; have the necessary skills to integrate financial analysis and information technology; and possess analytical and management functional area skills. Completion of this program will enable students to seek careers in information-intensive organizations as information managers, consultants, or financial analysts. Students who desire a comprehensive accounting education and are seeking to become Certified Public Accountants are advised to pursue the 150 semester credit hour, BS and MS Fast-Track Program in Accounting. Students who successfully complete both degrees may choose to sit for the CPA examination upon completion of the 150 semester credit hour educational requirement of the Texas State Board of Public Accountancy.
The Bachelor of Science degree in Business Administration is designed to provide students with a broad preparation for a business career and to lay the foundation for further study in business administration. Emphasis is placed on problem solving techniques that are crucial in the modern business environment. The Bachelor of Science in Business Administration offers concentrations in Business Analytics, Business Economics, Energy Management, Innovation and Entrepreneurship, Risk Management and Insurance, Real Estate Investment Management, and Sales in addition to the general degree.
The Bachelor of Science degree in Business Analytics provides students with the analytical, quantitative, and technical skills to provide data-driven solutions.  The objective of the program is to prepare professionals to solve analytics problems embedded in a business context.  Completion of the degree requirements will permit students to seek careers as business analysts in various fields by combining fundamental ideas in economics, finance, information technology, marketing, operations management, and statistics, using a range of research methodologies, tools, and programming languages. Students in the program will have the option of choosing guided electives from the program's tracks in financial and risk analytics, operations and supply chain management, information technology analytics, data science, or marketing analytics.
The Bachelor of Science degree in Finance provides students with both practical and theoretical training in financial decision making. Students who choose this degree will have the opportunity to develop the skills required to analyze financial information to make sound personal or business financial decisions, as well as effectively manage theirs or others' investments. Completion of the degree requirements will permit students to seek careers with private companies, corporations, financial institutions, government agencies, or as consultants. In addition, with the appropriate choice of courses, a student should be able to successfully complete different financial industry certification exams that would enhance their careers. A double major with Economics is offered in conjunction with the School of Economic, Political and Policy Sciences.
The Bachelor of Science degree in Global Business provides students with the knowledge and skills required for succeeding as a global manager while developing an understanding of the cultural, political, and regulatory environments that shape international business and trade. The Bachelor of Science in Global Business offers concentrations in Business Analytics, Business Economics, Energy Management, Innovation and Entrepreneurship, Risk Management and Insurance, Real Estate Investment Management, and Sales. Students who enroll in this program will learn the skills necessary for understanding the international business environments and financial markets, cross-cultural communication and negotiation, international human resource management, formulating and implementing global strategy, as well as marketing on a global basis. Completion of this program will enable students to seek careers in multinational corporations, consultancy firms, or internationally oriented organizations that operate in today's increasingly globalized economy. This program requires a study abroad experience. A double major with International Political Economy is offered in conjunction with the School of Economic, Political and Policy Sciences.
The Bachelor of Science degree in Healthcare Management prepares students with the specialized knowledge and skills to compete, lead, and succeed in the field of healthcare. The introductory class on healthcare introduces students to the breadth and scope of the industry. Additional healthcare-specific classes focus on the uniqueness of healthcare accounting, information systems, economics, law and regulatory environments. Completion of the program prepares students to respond to a changing and dynamic healthcare environment. Double majors with Biology and Molecular Biology are offered in conjunction with the Biology Department.
The Bachelor of Science degree in Human Resource Management provides students with the knowledge and skills needed to ensure the organization has the talent it requires to succeed. The objective is to enable students to combine business acumen and human resource management knowledge to make effective decisions about people systems. Students will learn about talent acquisition, performance management, compensation and benefits, employment law, training and development, and organizational change management. In the capstone, they will synthesize this knowledge in the development of a comprehensive human resource strategy for an actual organization designed to support the execution of its business strategy. Students wishing to sit for the SHRM-CP exam (Society of Human Resource Management-Certified Professional) can do so their senior year and take, as an elective, the SHRM certification preparatory course. As people are the core of all organizations, students can find careers in corporations and companies across industries, as well as in consultancies and not-for-profits.
The Bachelor of Science degree in Information Technology and Systems provides students with both practical and theoretical training in information technology which has become an integral part of every aspect of business. The objective of the program is to prepare professionals who understand business processes and the information required to support them, have the IT expertise to automate, improve, and re-engineer business processes; and develop an ability to keep up with the changing technology and information needs of business. Completion of the degree requirements will permit students to seek careers as business analysts, application developers, and IT consultants in many industries including corporations and government agencies. With the appropriate choice of courses, a student should be able to successfully get certified in areas such as SAP, SAS Business Intelligence, and Information Security.
The Bachelor of Science degree in Marketing provides students with the necessary knowledge to make good marketing decisions. Students will be exposed to the theoretical foundations of marketing in addition to obtaining practical training needed to make decisions with respect to sales management, customer service, pricing, promotions, market research, and marketing strategy. Students will have the opportunity to develop their analytical and quantitative skills required to analyze marketing and sales data, to formulate strategic responses to competitive moves, and to develop long term and short term marketing plans. Students who complete this degree can seek careers in sales, marketing research, brand management, and advertising and promotions.
The Bachelor of Science degree in Supply Chain Management prepares students to recognize the needs of consumers and how to serve them better by designing, producing, and managing superior products and services with a 'bottom line' perspective. Students will also learn how to think strategically while focusing on effective analysis. The program places emphasis on three important elements: 1) supply chain management, 2) logistics and distribution, and 3) purchasing and sourcing. The secondary goal is to prepare students for a variety of roles in private, non-profit, and government sectors. Completion of degree requirements will prepare students for graduate study or entry-level management analyst positions in consultancy, operations, logistics and distribution, manufacturing, purchasing and sourcing, warehousing, information technology, and various other industrial sectors.
All degrees contain a central major core of business credit hours. In the major core courses, students have an opportunity to learn theories and analytical techniques that can be applied to the functional areas of business, such as finance and marketing. They are exposed to the international dimensions of business activities and to social and political factors that impinge on business behavior. A capstone course is a part of each major and provides an integrative experience where students are challenged to solve real world business problems. In addition, each student is expected to complete a minimum of 160 hours of business-related work to fulfill the JSOM professional practicum requirement, as well as a community engagement experience.
Fifty percent of the total business semester credit hours must be taken at UT Dallas. Students may use a maximum of 9 semester credit hours of online-only distance learning business courses toward their degree. Specific policies required for JSOM majors can be found on the JSOM website.
 
Davidson Management Honors Program
The Davidson Management Honors Program provides an intellectually challenging and stimulating academic experience in a unique learning environment for the best and brightest students. Incoming freshmen are considered for membership based on high school class rank; SAT/ACT scores; and leadership activities in high school. Other students that have earned at least a 3.500 grade point average (GPA) in a minimum of 15 semester credit hours at UT Dallas with no more than 60 semester credit hours of total college credit may also apply. To graduate with Management Honors students must have a minimum of a 3.500 GPA based on at least 30 graded semester credit hours at UT Dallas and complete an honors curriculum along with satisfying other program requirements. Management Honors with Distinction are awarded to students whose thesis is judged by the faculty to be of exemplary quality. Applications and detailed information are available in the Naveen Jindal School of Management Advising Office.
 
Professional Program in Accounting
The Professional Program in Accounting (PPA) is designed for students who wish to pursue a career in professional accounting. This program is a two-and-a-half year program beginning in the spring semester of the student's junior year. Qualified students will earn their Bachelor of Science in Accounting degree once all degree requirements for the bachelor's degree have been satisfied; additionally; the Master of Science in Accounting (MS-ACCT) degree will be awarded upon successful completion of requirements for that degree. The goals of the program are to place PPA students in professional accounting internships and full-time positions, increase networking opportunities among students with professionals, and prepare students to become Certified Public Accountants. Applications to the program are accepted in the fall semester of a student's junior year. Applications and detailed information are available in the Naveen Jindal School of Management Advising Office.
 
Fast Track Baccalaureate/Master's Degrees
Fast Track programs are designed to permit undergraduate students enrolled at UT Dallas to begin work on the MBA or MS degrees before graduation. Qualified seniors may take graduate courses in Management that will apply toward the Bachelor of Science degree and also satisfy requirements for the Master's degree. These courses are selected from a list determined by the School.
Fast Track courses taken during the undergraduate senior year must be well chosen so that they satisfy the requirements of the BS degree AND those of the intended MBA/MS degree. Students in one major may choose to Fast Track into another major. Students can take the Fast Track courses as substitutes for major related courses, as guided and/or free Electives. Students from other Schools at UT Dallas can Fast Track into JSOM degrees as long as they meet the Fast Track admission requirements. Students must earn a grade of at least B in Fast Track courses - otherwise, the courses only count toward the undergraduate degree.
Students admitted to the Fast Track program are automatically admitted to the graduate program. Failure to meet any of the academic standards required by the graduate program can result in academic probation in the first semester of the graduate program. Students may delay for up to one year entering the graduate program and have their Fast Track courses count toward their graduate degree.
Students can also take graduate courses to apply toward either undergraduate or graduate credit. Details of the programs are available from the Naveen Jindal School of Management Advising Office.
 
Fast Track Options in the Naveen Jindal School of Management
Fast Track BS/MBA: The MBA program is a 53 semester credit hour program. Qualified seniors may take up to 15 semester credit hours of graduate courses that will apply to the BS degree and the MBA degree.
Fast Track BS/MS in Accounting: The MS in Accounting is a 36 semester credit hour program. It is primarily designed to permit students to meet the educational requirements of the Texas State Board of Public Accountancy to become Certified Public Accountants. Qualified seniors may take up to 6 semester credit hours of graduate courses that will apply to the BS degree and the MS degree.
Fast Track BS/MS in Business Analytics: The program provides students with a broad foundation in the business intelligence and analytics area. The program includes core courses and analytics electives organized into different tracks. Students may choose a track in Marketing Analytics, Decision and Operations Analytics, Financial Analytics, Healthcare Analytics and IT for Analytics. Qualified seniors may take up to 12 semester credit hours of graduate courses that will apply to the BS degree and also satisfy the requirements for the MS degree.
Fast Track BS/MS in Energy Management: The MS in Energy Management concentrates on the management of energy assets and crosses all sectors - including exploration and production, transportation, power, petroleum service and construction, and downstream refining and petrochemicals - in both government and traditional oil and gas corporations. The program also studies renewable energy, coal and power generation and marketing, both domestically and internationally. Qualified seniors may take up to 12 semester credit hours of graduate courses that will apply to the BS degree and also satisfy the requirements for the MS degree.
Fast Track BS/MS in Finance: Students choose from four tracks. The investment management track permits students interested in career paths that require Chartered Financial Analyst CFA® certification to take the graduate finance courses that are required to master the complex topics covered on the CFA® examination. The financial analyst track is designed for students interested in pursuing corporate finance related careers (e.g., investment banking, venture capital, private equity, corporate turnarounds, etc.) The financial engineering and risk management track is designed for students with the quantitative ability to pursue a career applying quantitative methods to investment and risk management problems. The financial management track allows students to tailor their coursework for careers in a range of activities. Qualified seniors may take up to 12 semester credit hours of graduate courses that will apply to the BS degree and also satisfy the requirements for the MS degree.
Fast Track BS/MS in Healthcare Leadership and Management: Students in the Business-Biology double major can Fast Track into this MS degree by selecting their business electives appropriately. Students in other majors can Fast Track into this degree by using free Electives for the Fast Track courses. Qualified seniors may take up to 12 semester credit hours of graduate courses that will apply to the BS degree and also satisfy the requirements for the MS degree.
Fast Track BS/MS in Information Technology and Management: Students may choose a concentration in Enterprise Systems, Healthcare Systems, and Information Security. Qualified seniors may take up to 12 semester credit hours of graduate courses that will apply to the BS degree and also satisfy the requirements for the MS degree.
Fast Track BS/MS in Innovation and Entrepreneurship: The program prepares students for successful careers in innovation-related roles in established organizations, entrepreneurial finance, or in the creation of new ventures. Students may choose between two focus areas: 1) The New Ventures Concentration, or 2) The Innovation within the Corporation Concentration. The program emphasizes technology-based innovation, consistent with and complementing UT Dallas' traditional strengths in science, engineering, computer science, and management disciplines. Qualified seniors may take up to 12 semester credit hours of graduate courses that will apply to the BS degree and also satisfy the requirements for the MS degree.
Fast Track BS/MS in International Management Studies: The program provides students the opportunity to learn in-depth the fundamentals of functional areas of management, international management, and cultural, sociopolitical and geographical constraints affecting international business decisions. Qualified seniors may take up to 12 semester credit hours of graduate courses that will apply to the BS degree and also satisfy the requirements for the MS degree.
Fast Track BS/MS in Management Science: Students may choose concentrations in Electronic Commerce, Strategy, and Innovation and Entrepreneurship. Qualified seniors may take up to 12 semester credit hours of graduate courses that will apply to the BS degree and also satisfy the requirements for an MS degree.
Fast Track BS/MS in Marketing: The program prepares students seeking higher level positions in marketing or pursuing a graduate program to further advance their marketing knowledge. The program includes core courses and electives organized into different tracks. Students may choose a track in Advertising and Brand Management, Business Development and Sales, Digital Advertising and Marketing, Marketing Analytics and Market Research, Marketing Management, and Product Management. Qualified seniors may take up to 12 semester credit hours of graduate courses that will apply to the BS degree and also satisfy the requirements for the MS degree.
Fast Track BS/MS in Supply Chain Management: Students explore the key issues associated with the design and management of industrial supply chains. Qualified seniors may take up to 12 semester credit hours of graduate courses that will apply to the BS degree and also satisfy the requirements for the MS degree.
 
JSOM Policy on Undergraduate Change of Majors
All students wishing to change majors to JSOM after enrollment should carefully consider the consequences of excessive hours and time to degree completion. All students considering major changes are advised to complete career counseling assessment at either the Jindal Career Management Center or University Career Center. Please note: Requests for a JSOM change of major will be processed after semester grades are posted and up to the first day of class for the following semester.
Change of Major Application Minimum Requirements:
Currently Enrolled Students
To be considered for a change of major, students must:

Have at most 60 attempted semester credit hours, AND
Have a cumulative UT Dallas GPA of 2.500 or better, AND
Have completed MATH 1325 or equivalent with a C or better,1 And
Have completed a plan for their intended major with a JSOM advisor

Incoming Students
To be considered for a change of major:

Admitted entering first-time freshmen, must meet JSOM freshman admission standards, OR
Admitted entering transfer students, must meet transfer student assured admission standards

1. Otherwise qualified students who have not completed MATH 1325 (or equivalent) with a grade of "C" or better should consider Undecided with the pre-business track while completing MATH 1325.
 
Minors
Minors are available in Accounting, Business Administration, Business Intelligence and Analytics, Energy Management, Finance, Healthcare Management, Human Resource Management, Information Technology and Systems, Innovation and Entrepreneurship, Insurance, Marketing, and Supply Chain Management. Students who take a minor will be expected to meet the normal prerequisites in courses making up the minor, and should maintain a minimum GPA of 2.000 on a 4.00 scale (C average).
All other prerequisites must be met. Semester credit hours may not be used to satisfy both the major and minor requirements; however, free elective semester credit hours or major preparatory classes may be used to satisfy the minor. The minors in the Naveen Jindal School of Management are the following:

Accounting
Business Administration
Business Intelligence and Analytics
Energy Management
Finance
Healthcare Management
Human Resource Management
Information Technology and Systems
Innovation and Entrepreneurship
Insurance
Marketing
Supply Chain Management

 
Faculty
FACG> jsom-allProfessors: Ashiq Ali @axa042200, Alain Bensoussan @axb046100, Gary Bolton @gxb122130, Metín Çakanyildirim @metin, Huseyin Cavusoglu @huseyin, Jianqing Chen @jxc111031, William M. Cready @wmc041000, Milind Dawande @milind, Gregory G. Dess @ggd021000, Umit G. Gurun @ugg041000, Kyle Hyndman @tdp062000, Varghese S. Jacob @vjacob, Sanjay Jain @sxj164830, Ganesh Janakiraman @gxj091000, Elena Katok @emk120030, Dmitri Kuksov @dgk120030, Nanda Kumar @nkumar, Seung-Hyun Lee @sxl029100, Stanley Liebowitz @liebowit, Zhiang (John) Lin @zlin, Sumit K. Majumdar @skm021100, Stanimir Markov @sxm079200, Amit Mehra @axm078200, Syam Menon @sxm021300, Vijay S. Mookerjee @vijaym, B. P. S. Murthi @murthi, Vikram Nanda @vkn150030, Özalp Özer @oxo091000, Mike W. Peng @mxp059000, Hasan Pirkul @hpirkul, Cuili Qian @cxq170330, Suresh Radhakrishnan @sradhakr, Srinivasan Raghunathan @sraghu, Ram C. Rao @rrao, Brian Ratchford @btr051000, Michael J. Rebello @mjr071000, Gil Sadka @gxs143630, Sumit Sarkar @sumit, Suresh P. Sethi @sethi, Kathryn E. Stecke @kes021000, Riki Takeuchi @rxt173730, Wing Kwong (Eric) Tsang @wkt071000, Jun Xia @jxx132030, Ying Xie @yxx124930, Harold Zhang @hxz054000, Zhiqiang (Eric) Zheng @zxz062000Associate Professors: Mehmet Ayvaci @mua120030, Nina Baranchuk @nxb043000, Zhonglan Dai @zxd051000, Rebecca Files @rlf092000, Michael Hasler @mxh190031, Dorothée Honhon @dbh130130, Bin Hu @bxh180009, Surya N. Janakiraman @suryaj, Robert L. Kieschnick Jr. @rkiesch, Atanu Lahiri @axl144730, Jun Li @jxl128031, Ningzhong Li @nxl124130, Maria Loumioti @mxl175830, Lívia Markóczy @lxm055000, Ramachandran (Ram) Natarajan @nataraj, Naim Bugra Ozel @nbo150030, H. Dennis Park @hxp174230, Anyan Qi @axq140430, Young U. Ryu @ryoung, Harpreet Singh @hxs104000, David J. Springate @spring8, Upender Subramanian @uxs092000, Shaojie Tang @sxt146930, Shouqiang Wang @sxw163830, Kelsey D. Wei @kdw061000, Han (Victor) Xia @hxx110930, Yexiao Xu @yexiaoxu, Alejandro Zentner @axz051000, Jieying Zhang @jxz146230, Yuan Zhang @yxz122931, Feng Zhao @fxz082000, Yibin Zhou @yxz066000Assistant Professors: Khai Chiong @kxc173030, Rafael Copat @rxc190027, Soraya Fatehi @sxf200005, Andrew Frazelle @aef180002, Ying Huang @yxh124430, Joonhwi Joo @jxj180020, Sora Jun @sxj177030, Jason Kautz @jdk200000, Tongil Kim @txk200012, Sheen Levine @ssl140530, Christopher Mace @cxm200014, Samir Mamadehussene @sxm200118, Jean-Marie Meier @jmm172030, Zixuan Meng @zxm200005, Radha Mookerjee @rvm019000, Jedson Pinto @jpp200002, Ignacio Rios Uribe @iar200000, Alejandro Rivera Mesias @axr150331, Simon Siegenthaler @sxs177933, Serdar Simsek @axs158032, Kirti Sinha @kxs190050, Shujing Sun @sxs200168, Xiaoxiao Tang @xxt180003, Shervin Tehrani @sst180003, Ashwin Venkataraman @axv190029, Christian Von-Drathen @cxv141430, Guihua Wang @gxw130630, Hongchang Wang @hxw140930, Pingle Wang @pxw200007, Junfeng Wu @jxw175430, Steven Xiao @sxx150930, Yingjie Zhang @yxz180067, Zhe (James) Zhang @zxz145430Professor Emeritus: John J. Wiorkowski @wiorkowAssociate Professors Emeriti: J. Richard Harrison @harrison, Jane Salk @jes025000Visiting Professor: Emily Choi @exc113230Clinical Professors: Britt Berrett @brb051000, Abhijit Biswas @axb019100, Pamela Foster Brady @pxf090020, Shawn Carraher @smc130730, Larry Chasteen @chasteen, Paul Convery @pxc141930, Tevfik Dalgic @tdalgic, Howard Dover @hfd021000, John Gamino @jpg140630, Randall S. Guttery @rxg112530, William Hefley @weh150130, Robert Hicks @rfh041000, Robert Kaiser @rck180000, Marilyn Kaplan @mkaplan, Van Latham @vml170230, Sonia Leach @sel120030, Peter Lewin @plewin, Jeffrey Manzi @jxm158130, John F. McCracken @jfm, Diane S. McNulty @dmcnulty, Larry Norton @lxn171230, Divakar Rajamani @dxr020100, Daniel Rajaratnam @dxr143430, Kannan Ramanathan @kxr087000, Prakash Shrivastava @pcs130130, Mark Thouin @mxt083000, McClain Watson @jmw077000, Jeff Weekley @jaw160330, Habte Woldu @wolduh, Fang Wu @fxw052000, Laurie L. Ziegler @zieglerClinical Associate Professors: Shawn Alborz @sxa063000, Dawn Owens @dmo130130, Carolyn Reichert @carolyn, Avanti P. Sethi @asethi, Ramesh Subramoniam @rxs179630, James Szot @jxs011100, Aysegul Toptal @axt083100, David Widdifield @dsw180001Clinical Assistant Professors: Mea Ahlberg @mxa087100, Athena Alimirzaei @axa134231, Christina (Krysta) Betanzos @clb120030, Moran Blueshtein @mxb135230, Judd Bradbury @jdb101000, Jerome Gafford @jmg171130, Jeffery (Jeff) Hicks @jnh061000, Dupinderjeet Kaur @dxk110730, Revansiddha Khanapure @rbk160130, Kristen Lawson @kal110030, Kathryn Lookadoo @kxl164330, Liping Ma @lxm133730, Sarah Moore @sem054000, Ravi Narayan @rln130030, Parneet Pahwa @pxp030100, Jason Parker @jap090020, Nassim Sohaee @nxs045000Professors of Instruction: Semiramis Amirpour @sxa130731, Mary Beth Goodrich @goodrich, Chris Linsteadt @ccl019000, Luell (Lou) Thompson @lot013000Associate Professors of Instruction: Vivek Arora @vxa081000, Monica E. Brussolo @meb049000, Amal El-Ashmawi @ahe013000, Ayfer Gurun @axg119030, Maria Hasenhuttl @h1562, Jennifer G. Johnson @jxj091000, Mohammad Naseri Taheri @mxn121930, Daniel Sibley @dcs170002, Hubert Zydorek @hxz120930Assistant Professors of Instruction: Negin Enayaty Ahangar @nxe180001, Julie Haworth @haworth, Daniel Karnuta @dxk173030, Victoria D. McCrady @vdm130030, Rasoul Ramezani @rxr145930, Gaurav Shekhar @gxs150130Professors of Practice: Gregory Ballew @geb011100, Tiffany A. Bortz @tabortz, Ranavir Bose @rxb132730, Alexander Edsel @ade012000, Rajiv Shah @rxs079000, Keith Thurgood @klt160130Associate Professors of Practice: Richard Bowen @rxb073100, Jackie Kimzey @jxk092000, Julie Lynch @jxl180030, David Parks @dxp153830, Margaret Smallwood @meg012400, Steven Solcher @sjs107020, Kathy Zolton @kxz121730Assistant Professors of Practice: Khatereh Ahadi @kxa180010, Abu Naser Islam @nxi110630, Scott Janke @smj160830, Edward Meda @exm150330, Timothy Stephens @tgs170130Senior Lecturers: Juliann Chapman @jgc160130, Thomas  (Tom) Henderson @txh093000, Joseph Mauriello @jam151430, Robert (Stephen) Molina @sxm163630, Paul Nichols @pxn120030, Madison Pedigo @mfp013000, Matt Polze @mmp062000, Guido Tirone @gxt170001, Robert Wright @rgw091000
Updated: 2022-05-28 10:40:19 v3.e20661bugz












2022 Undergraduate Catalog

General Information

About the 2022 Catalog
About UT Dallas
University Officers

President
President's Cabinet
Administrative Officers/Deans

UT System Regents
Contact Information
Faculty Roster
Search 2022 Undergraduate Catalog

Undergraduate Programs

Arts and Humanities

About Arts and Humanities
History
Latin American Studies
Literature

Literature
Literature with Creative Writing
Literature with Rhetoric and Communication
Literature with Spanish

Philosophy
Visual and Performing Arts

VPA with Art History
VPA with Communication
VPA with Dance
VPA with Film
VPA with Interdisciplinary Arts
VPA with Music
VPA with Photo-Video-Digital
VPA with Theatre
VPA with Visual Arts

Minors

Arts, Technology, and Emerging Communication

About Arts, Technology, and Emerging Communication
Arts, Technology, and Emerging Communication
ATEC with Animation and Games
ATEC with Critical Media Studies
ATEC with Emerging Media Arts
Minors

Behavioral and Brain Sciences

About Behavioral and Brain Sciences
Child Learning and Development
Cognitive Science
Neuroscience
Psychology
Speech, Language, and Hearing Sciences
Minors

Economic, Political and Policy Sciences

About Economic, Political and Policy Sciences
Criminology

Criminology
Criminology and Biology

Economics

Economics
Economics and Finance

Geospatial Information Sciences
International Political Economy

International Political Economy
International Political Economy and Global Business

Political Science
Public Affairs
Public Policy
Sociology
Minors

Engineering and Computer Science

About Engineering and Computer Science
Biomedical Engineering
Computer Engineering
Computer Science

Computer Science
Data Science

Electrical Engineering
Mechanical Engineering
Software Engineering
Certificates
Minors

Interdisciplinary Studies

About Interdisciplinary Studies
American Studies
Healthcare Studies
Education
Interdisciplinary Studies
Minors

Jindal School of Management

About Jindal School of Management
Accounting
Business Administration

Business Administration
Certificate in Innovation and Entrepreneurship

Business Analytics
Finance

Finance
Finance and Economics

Global Business

Global Business
Global Business and Human Resource Management
Global Business and International Political Economy
Global Business and Marketing
Global Business and Supply Chain Management

Healthcare Management

Healthcare Management
Healthcare Management and Biology
Healthcare Management and Molecular Biology

Human Resource Management

Human Resource Management
Human Resource Management and Global Business

Information Technology and Systems
Marketing

Marketing
Marketing and Global Business

Supply Chain Management

Supply Chain Management
Supply Chain Management and Global Business

Minors

Natural Science and Mathematics

About Natural Science and Mathematics
Biology

Biology
Biology and Criminology
Biology and Healthcare Management
Molecular Biology
Molecular Biology and Healthcare Management

Chemistry and Biochemistry

Biochemistry
Chemistry

Geosciences
Mathematical Sciences

Actuarial Science
Data Science
Mathematics

Physics
Biomedical Sciences (Cert)
Minors
UTeach Options

Teacher Certification
Honors College
Undergraduate Minors

Undergraduate Courses

Undergraduate Courses by Subject
Undergraduate Courses by School

Undergraduate Admission

About Undergrad Admission
Admission Criteria for First-Time in College Freshmen

Automatic Admission
Reviewed Admission

Admission Criteria for Transfer Students

Automatic Admission
Application of Transfer Credit
Transfer Admission Criteria

International Student Admission
Admission Policies

Credit by Examination
Criminal Background Check
Texas Success Initiative (TSI)

Registration Requirements
Legislative Requirements
TSI Provisions
TSI Exemptions

Developmental Education

Developmental Education at UT Dallas
Placement into Developmental Education Courses
Participation and Attendance in Developmental Education


Readmission
Special Admissions
Application Fees and Deadlines

Undergraduate Curriculum

About Curriculum
Core Curriculum
Honors Programs
Other Degree Requirements

Tuition and Financial Aid

About Tuition and Financial Aid
Excessive Undergraduate Hours
Refund of Tuition and Fees
Other User Fees
Financial Aid
Types of Financial Aid

Policies and Procedures

List of Undergraduate Policies
Academic Policies

Academic Advising
Academic Grievances
Academic Progress
Academic Record and Official Transcription
Dean's List
Final Examinations
Grade Changes
Grade Point Average
Grading Scale
Incomplete Grades
Mid-Term Grades
Scholastic Status
Transcripts
Transfer Credit
Transfer Disputes for Lower-Division Courses
Reverse Transfer Transcripts

Admission Policies

Admission Criteria for First-Time in College Freshmen

Automatic Admission
Reviewed Admission

Admission Criteria for Transfer Students

Automatic Admission
Application of Transfer Credit
Transfer Admission Criteria

Credit by Examination
Criminal Background Check
Texas Success Initiative (TSI)

Registration Requirements
Legislative Requirements
TSI Provisions
TSI Exemptions

Developmental Education

Developmental Education at UT Dallas
Placement into Developmental Education Courses
Participation and Attendance in Developmental Education


Course Policies

Course Offerings
Auditing Courses
Course Load
Guidelines for Course Numbering
Course Numbering System
Credit/No Credit Classes
Independent Study
Internship Program
Repeating Coursework

Degree Plans

Degree Plans
Change of Major
Deadlines and Fees
Declaring a Major
Double Major and Double Degree

Disciplinary Actions Associated with Academic Standing

Academic Good Standing
Disciplinary Status Overview
Academic Probation
Academic Warning
Academic Departure
Academic Suspension
Readmission
Changing Majors

Fast Track

Fast Track Option
Program Requirements
Choice of Graduate Degree and Cross-Tracking
Choice of Graduate Courses
Transition to Master’s Program after Bachelor’s Degree
Official Transcription

Graduate Courses

Graduate Courses
Applied Toward an Undergraduate Degree
Possible Future Use as Graduate Credit

Graduation Policies

Timely Graduation
Application for Graduation
Commencement Ceremonies
Graduation with Honors
Graduation Under a Particular Catalog
Graduation Requirements

Registration Policies

Classification of Students
Registration
Registration Dates
In Absentia Registration
Concurrent Enrollment at Other Public Institutions of Higher Education
Cooperative Agreements
Visiting UT System Students Program
Deadlines for Adding or Dropping a Class
Dropping and Withdrawing
Administrative Drop
Drop Appeal Procedures
Non-Academic Withdrawals
Appeal of a Denied Petition for Non-Academic Withdrawal
Repeated Non-Academic Withdrawal
Withdrawal/Resignation from the University
Refunds Following Withdrawal

Military

Military Training Awarded as Academic Course Credit
Military Service Activation Interruption of Education

Remain Enrolled and Complete Coursework Following Brief Military Service
Withdraw, Receive Incomplete Grade, or Receive Final Grade
Automatic Readmission Following Military Service

Delayed Disbursements From the VA Under Chapter 31 or 33

Student Travel

Student Travel Policy
Education Abroad

Policies
Options
Eligibility and Conditions
Financial Information
Transfer Credit and Graduation
International Travel, Policies and Services


Other Policies

Change of Address, Email, or Name
Copyrighted Material
Correspondence - Email
Emergency Response, Fire Safety, and Security
FERPA
Hazing
Making a False Alarm or Report
Religious Holy Days
Student-Right-To-Know and Campus Security Act (Clery Act)
Use of Facilities

Addendum

University Resources

List of Resources
General Resources
Health Resources
International Resources
Professional Resources
Student Complaint Resources







The University of Texas at DallasUT Dallas ProvostCourseBookContact the Provost's Technology Group






(null clip target)













