


Application Fees and Deadlines - Graduate Admission (Print Version)









UT Dallas 2021 Graduate Catalog
Graduate Admission
Application
To apply to UT Dallas, prospective graduate students should use a web-based application form that can be accessed using the "Apply Now" link for each degree listing at: graduate-admissions.utdallas.edu
Applicants are advised to carefully review the program information and the semester specific deadlines for domestic and international applications. Applicants are required to submit electronic copies of all past academic official transcripts, test scores, and other admission requirements documentation by the appropriate application deadlines to be considered for admission to The University of Texas at Dallas.
 
Application Fees and Deadlines
All fees are nonrefundable.

The application fee is $50 if your application is submitted on or before the regular application deadline.
If you submit your application after the application deadline but prior to the completed application deadline (application and all required documents) the application fee is $125 in order to process your application for decision in time to register for classes.
Applicants with international academic documents will be assessed an additional foreign credential evaluation fee of $50.
All supporting documents and transcripts, with the exception of courses in progress, must be received in the Office of Admission and Enrollment by the completed application deadline.
A new application must be completed and submitted for consideration for any subsequent semester for all incomplete applications after the documentation deadline.

Domestic and international applicants are urged to plan ahead and apply as early as possible and to allow adequate time for review by the admissions committees. To ensure consideration for financial assistantships students are urged to submit a completed application nine months prior to anticipated enrollment. Applicants are advised to refer to graduate-admissions.utdallas.edu/degrees for additional information on specific admission deadlines for each degree program. Applications submitted after the application deadline and before the completed application deadline (application and all required documents) deadline will still be processed; however, a decision may not be reached in time for students to avoid late registration.
Domestic and International applicants should have all necessary application materials to the Office of Admission and Enrollment prior to the following dates:
NOTE>  A category table goes here - please contact catalog@utdallas to update it
  Deadlines for U.S. Citizens and International Applicants   Term Early Application  and Documentation Deadline (Complete Admissions Application File Due)  Regular Application and Documentation Deadline (Complete Admissions Application File Due)    Fall Full-Term January 15 May 1   Spring Full-Term May 15 October 1   Summer Sessions October 15 March 1  
Students seeking appointments as Teaching Assistants or Research Assistants should contact the academic advisor for the degree program and plan for earlier application submissions.
The Office of Admission and Enrollment, located in the Student Services Building, can assist prospective students in exploring the possibility of graduate study at UT Dallas. For detailed admissions or academic advice, please contact the specific academic program by visiting graduate-admissions.utdallas.edu/degrees.
Updated: 2021-05-23 15:24:49 v4.5c2cf4




