



Emerging Media and Communication - UT Dallas 2013 Undergraduate Catalog - The University of Texas at Dallas































Jump to content
Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Catalog Home 
Undergraduate Catalogs 


2022 Undergraduate Catalog2021 Undergraduate Catalog2020 Undergraduate Catalog2019 Undergraduate Catalog2018 Undergraduate Catalog2017 Undergraduate Catalog2016 Undergraduate Catalog


 
Graduate Catalogs 


2022 Graduate Catalog2021 Graduate Catalog2020 Graduate Catalog2019 Graduate Catalog2018 Graduate Catalog2017 Graduate Catalog2016 Graduate Catalog









UT Dallas 2013 Undergraduate CatalogEmerging Media and CommunicationEMAC 3328 The Digital Society (3 semester hours) This course will examine the way the digital network changes our society. Students will examine various shifts that have occurred in our public and private lives as a result of the digital network. The class will cover a range of issues which, depending on the instructor, could include: social networks, privacy, journalism, politics, intellectual property, among others. May be repeated for credit (6 hours maximum). Prerequisite: ATEC 2322. (3-0) YEMAC 3343 Social Networks (3 semester hours) This course introduces the theoretical perspectives and practical applications of the study of social networks, which include (but are not limited to) friendship networks, political discussion networks, social support networks, health networks, organizational networks, and online networks. The emphasis of the course will be placed on the impact of communication technologies on the creation, maintenance, and transformation of social networks in contemporary media environments. Students will also learn to analyze and visualize networks using computer programs. (3-0) YEMAC 4325 Digital Writing (3 semester hours) This class will introduce the forms and strategies of digital composition. Through this writing-intensive course students will learn to write in and about digital networked spaces, focusing on changes that the switch from analog to digital has brought to representation. This course will explore writing in the digital age across a range of technologies, environments, and spaces. Prerequisite: (RHET 1302 and ATEC 2321 and ATEC 2322) and upper-division standing. (3-0) YEMAC 4372 Topics in Emerging Media and Communications (3 semester hours) The course studies fundamental principles and basic techniques of emerging media and communication. Sections may be devoted exclusively to a single aspect of emerging media and communication or to a multiplicity of subjects related to the field. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (12 hours maximum). Prerequisite: Upper-division standing. (3-0) REMAC 4v71 Independent Study in Emerging Media and Communication (1-3 semester hours) Independent study under a faculty member's direction. Signature of instructor on proposed project outline required. May be repeated for credit (9 hours maximum). Prerequisites: Upper-division standing and completion of all lower-division requirements in EMAC and instructor consent required. ([1-3]-0) REMAC 4v80 Capstone Project (1-3 semester hours) Culminating course in Emerging Media and Communication. Students will engage in the creation of an advanced creative and/or research project exploring the interaction of the arts with digital technology. Restricted to students majoring in Emerging Media and Communication who are within one semester of graduation. Prerequisite: Instructor consent required. ([1-3]-0) YEMAC 4v99 Senior Honors in Emerging Media & Communication (1-3 semester hours) Intended for students conducting independent research for honors theses or projects. Topics may vary. Signature of instructor on proposed project outline required. ([1-3]-0) Rbugz












2013 Undergraduate Catalog

General Information

About the 2013 Catalog
About UT Dallas
University Officers
UT System Regents
Contact Information
Faculty Roster
Search 2013 Undergraduate Catalog

Undergraduate Programs

Arts and Humanities

Art and Performance
ATEC
EMAC
Historical Studies
Literary Studies

Behavioral and Brain Sciences

Child Learning and Development
Cognitive Science
Neuroscience
Psychology
Speech-Language Pathology and Audiology

Economic, Political and Policy Sciences

Criminology
Criminology and Biology
Economics
Economics and Finance
Geospatial Information Sciences
International Political Economy
Political Science
Public Affairs
Sociology

Engineering and Computer Science

Biomedical Engineering
Computer Engineering
Computer Science
Electrical Engineering
Mechanical Engineering
Software Engineering
Telecommunications Engineering

Interdisciplinary Studies

American Studies
Healthcare Studies
Interdisciplinary Studies

Jindal School of Management

Accounting
Business Administration
Business Administration and Biology
Business Administration and Molecular Biology
Finance
Finance and Economics
Global Business
Management Information Systems
Marketing
Supply Chain Management

Natural Science and Mathematics

Actuarial Science
Biochemistry
Biology
Biology and Business Administration
Biology and Criminology
Chemistry
Geosciences
Mathematics
Molecular Biology
Molecular Biology and Business Administration
Physics
Biomedical Sciences (Cert)

Teacher Certification

Undergraduate Courses

Undergraduate Courses by Subject
Undergraduate Courses by School
Undergraduate Interdisciplinary Courses
Undergraduate Developmental Courses

Undergraduate Admission

About Admission
Application Fees and Deadlines
Freshman Admission
International Student Admission
Readmission
Special Admissions
Transfer Student Admissions

Undergraduate Curriculum

About Curriculum
Core Curriculum
Honors Programs
Other Degree Requirements

Tuition and Financial Aid

About Tuition and Financial Aid
Excessive Undergraduate Hours
Refund of Tuition and Fees
Other User Fees
Financial Aid
Types of Financial Aid

Policies and Procedures

List of Undergraduate Policies

Academic
Admission
Change of Address
Correspondence - Email
Courses
Degree Plans
Disciplinary Actions
FERPA
Graduate Courses
Graduation
International Education
Military Service
Registration
Religious Holy Days
Student Travel


University Resources

List of Resources

General Resources
Health Resources
Professional Resources
Student Complaint Resources


Catalog Appendices

Appendix I - Rules, Regulations, and Statutory Requirements
Appendix II - Transfer of Lower-Division Course Credit







The University of Texas at DallasUT Dallas ProvostCourseBookContact the Provost's Technology Group






(null clip target)













