



Art History - UT Dallas 2013 Undergraduate Catalog - The University of Texas at Dallas































Jump to content
Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Catalog Home 
Undergraduate Catalogs 


2022 Undergraduate Catalog2021 Undergraduate Catalog2020 Undergraduate Catalog2019 Undergraduate Catalog2018 Undergraduate Catalog2017 Undergraduate Catalog2016 Undergraduate Catalog


 
Graduate Catalogs 


2022 Graduate Catalog2021 Graduate Catalog2020 Graduate Catalog2019 Graduate Catalog2018 Graduate Catalog2017 Graduate Catalog2016 Graduate Catalog









UT Dallas 2013 Undergraduate CatalogArt HistoryAHST 1303 (ARTS 1303) Survey of Western Art History: Ancient to Medieval (3 semester hours) An introduction to painting, sculpture, and architecture in the West from prehistory through the late Middle Ages and including the achievements of the ancient Egyptian, Greek, Roman, and Medieval cultures. Monuments will be studied within their historical, religious, and social contexts, with particular focus on the role of art in society and on the development of style. (3-0) YAHST 1304 (ARTS 1304) Survey of Western Art History: Renaissance to Modern (3 semester hours) An introduction to painting, sculpture, and architecture in the West from the Renaissance to the modern period, including work by such artists as Michelangelo, Rembrandt, the Impressionists, and Picasso. Artists and monuments will be studied within their historical, religious, and social contexts, with particular focus on the role of art in society and on the development of style. (3-0) YAHST 2331 Understanding Art (3 semester hours) An investigation into the nature of the visual arts with an emphasis on the issues and ideas that artists explore through their work and how these ideas translate into the artwork. Attention will be given to the interpretation or reading of the artwork and how it may relate to society. (3-0) YAHST 2v71 Independent Study in Art History (1-3 semester hours) Independent study under a faculty member's direction. Signature of instructor and ADU on proposed project outline required. May be repeated for credit (9 hours maximum). Prerequisite: Instructor consent required. ([1-3]-0) RAHST 3313 Medieval Art (3 semester hours) Studies in the art and architecture of medieval Europe. The political, social, and especially religious foundations of medieval art will be emphasized. Prerequisite: ARTS 1301 or equivalent. (3-0) RAHST 3315 The Art of the Renaissance (3 semester hours) Studies in the art and architecture of Italy and/or Northern Europe during the 14th, 15th, and 16th centuries. Special attention is paid to the role of politics, patronage, religious worship, the developing self-consciousness of the artist, and the importance of new techniques. Prerequisite: ARTS 1301 or equivalent. (3-0) TAHST 3316 The Art of the Baroque (3 semester hours) Studies in the art and architecture of the 17th and/or 18th centuries in Europe. The social, political, and religious background to the art of the period will be emphasized. The impact of certain artistic personalities, such as Caravaggio, Bernini, Rubens, Velazquez, and Rembrandt will be analyzed. Prerequisite: ARTS 1301 or equivalent. (3-0) TAHST 3317 Pioneers of Modern Art (3 semester hours) Focus on the work of the Post-Impressionists (Seurat, Gauguin, Van Gogh, and Cezanne) and the Symbolists with special emphasis on the artists' contribution to the discourse of ideas and the crisis of meaning in the late 19th century. Prerequisite: ARTS 1301 or equivalent. (3-0) TAHST 3318 Contemporary Art (3 semester hours) An issue-oriented class in which a selection of recent developments in art serve to introduce the ideas and aims of postmodernism. Special attention is given to those artists who are concerned with representation and the visual element in social constructs. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (6 hours maximum). Prerequisite: ARTS 1301 or equivalent. (3-0) TAHST 3319 Twentieth-Century European Art: Avant-Garde and Aftermath (3 semester hours) The situation of the European avant-garde before and after its explosive center point of World War I. Special emphasis will be given to the breakthrough of abstraction and modernism's problematic relation to tradition. Prerequisite: ARTS 1301 or equivalent. (3-0) RAHST 3320 Art in Historical Context (3 semester hours) Studies in the arts and/or architecture of such eras as ancient Greece and Rome or the 18th and 19th centuries. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 hours maximum). Prerequisite: ARTS 1301 or equivalent. (3-0) TAHST 3324 History of Photography (3 semester hours) Photography, from 1825 to the present, as a study of evolving styles, stressing key turning points and contributing factors and focusing on a background of the modern art movement and the psychology and events of the times. Critical analysis of the work of various photographers will be included. Topics may include an emphasis on 19th century, modern, or contemporary photography. Prerequisite: ARTS 1301 or equivalent. (3-0) TAHST 4342 Topics in Art History (3 semester hours) Subjects will vary from semester to semester. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 hours maximum). Prerequisite: ARTS 1301 or equivalent. (3-0) RAHST 4v71 Independent Study in Art History (1-3 semester hours) Independent study under a faculty member's direction. Signature of instructor and ADU on proposed project outline required. May be repeated for credit (9 hours maximum). Prerequisites: Upper-division standing and instructor consent required. ([1-3]-0) Rbugz












2013 Undergraduate Catalog

General Information

About the 2013 Catalog
About UT Dallas
University Officers
UT System Regents
Contact Information
Faculty Roster
Search 2013 Undergraduate Catalog

Undergraduate Programs

Arts and Humanities

Art and Performance
ATEC
EMAC
Historical Studies
Literary Studies

Behavioral and Brain Sciences

Child Learning and Development
Cognitive Science
Neuroscience
Psychology
Speech-Language Pathology and Audiology

Economic, Political and Policy Sciences

Criminology
Criminology and Biology
Economics
Economics and Finance
Geospatial Information Sciences
International Political Economy
Political Science
Public Affairs
Sociology

Engineering and Computer Science

Biomedical Engineering
Computer Engineering
Computer Science
Electrical Engineering
Mechanical Engineering
Software Engineering
Telecommunications Engineering

Interdisciplinary Studies

American Studies
Healthcare Studies
Interdisciplinary Studies

Jindal School of Management

Accounting
Business Administration
Business Administration and Biology
Business Administration and Molecular Biology
Finance
Finance and Economics
Global Business
Management Information Systems
Marketing
Supply Chain Management

Natural Science and Mathematics

Actuarial Science
Biochemistry
Biology
Biology and Business Administration
Biology and Criminology
Chemistry
Geosciences
Mathematics
Molecular Biology
Molecular Biology and Business Administration
Physics
Biomedical Sciences (Cert)

Teacher Certification

Undergraduate Courses

Undergraduate Courses by Subject
Undergraduate Courses by School
Undergraduate Interdisciplinary Courses
Undergraduate Developmental Courses

Undergraduate Admission

About Admission
Application Fees and Deadlines
Freshman Admission
International Student Admission
Readmission
Special Admissions
Transfer Student Admissions

Undergraduate Curriculum

About Curriculum
Core Curriculum
Honors Programs
Other Degree Requirements

Tuition and Financial Aid

About Tuition and Financial Aid
Excessive Undergraduate Hours
Refund of Tuition and Fees
Other User Fees
Financial Aid
Types of Financial Aid

Policies and Procedures

List of Undergraduate Policies

Academic
Admission
Change of Address
Correspondence - Email
Courses
Degree Plans
Disciplinary Actions
FERPA
Graduate Courses
Graduation
International Education
Military Service
Registration
Religious Holy Days
Student Travel


University Resources

List of Resources

General Resources
Health Resources
Professional Resources
Student Complaint Resources


Catalog Appendices

Appendix I - Rules, Regulations, and Statutory Requirements
Appendix II - Transfer of Lower-Division Course Credit







The University of Texas at DallasUT Dallas ProvostCourseBookContact the Provost's Technology Group






(null clip target)













