


Graduate Admission (Print Version)









UT Dallas 2021 Graduate Catalog
Graduate Admission
About Graduate Admission
The University of Texas at Dallas is a comprehensive, state supported institution of higher learning, offering a variety of programs at the undergraduate, masters, and doctoral levels. UT Dallas is committed to providing quality education to a diverse student body and offers programs designed for both full-time and part-time students. The University of Texas at Dallas accepts applications for admission to graduate degree programs for the fall, spring and summer semesters.
Admission to UT Dallas is open to all candidates on the basis of academic preparation, ability, and availability of space without regard to race, color, religion, national origin, gender, age, disability, citizenship, veteran status, or sexual orientation.
Inquiries regarding the status or details of an application will only be discussed with the applicant or a representative designated by the applicant. Disclosure of any material in an applicant's file to a third party is prohibited.
For application inquiries or questions on graduate admissions, contact the Graduate department or program to which you are applying since each program has specific admission requirements listed at graduate-admissions.utdallas.edu/degrees.
Graduate application deadlines and available terms of entry may vary by program. Please refer to the application section in this catalog. International applicants may have different deadlines; please refer to both the application section in this catalog and the International Students graduate admissions website for more information.
As with all state institutions of higher education, the procedures and criteria for admission used by UT Dallas are effective as of the publication date of this catalog but are subject to change by actions of the Texas Legislature or the Board of Regents.
 
Admission Requirements
Each program has specific admission requirements listed at graduate-admissions.utdallas.edu/degrees.
At a minimum, all applicants must meet the following admissions requirements:
Master's and Doctoral Programs
The minimum requirement for admission to any master's or doctoral degree program at UT Dallas is an earned UT Dallas baccalaureate degree or its equivalent and a record indicative of readiness for graduate work. Each graduate degree program has different admission standards, and faculty admission committees make admission decisions based on their holistic review of each applicant's credentials.
Applicants who have earned a three year baccalaureate degree are eligible to apply for admission to UT Dallas graduate programs. Applicants in their final year of undergraduate study may be admitted to a master's or doctoral degree program at UT Dallas. Evidence for the conferral of the baccalaureate degree must be presented before enrollment in the master's or doctoral degree program is permitted.
An applicant who has earned a baccalaureate degree under the "academic fresh start statute" (Texas Education Code, Section 51.931) will be evaluated only on the grade point average (GPA) of the coursework completed for that baccalaureate degree and the other criteria stated in this catalog.
Some doctoral programs may require an earned master's degree or its equivalent for admission.
Graduate Certificate Programs
UT Dallas offers several graduate level certificate programs that typically involve 9 to 15 semester credit hours of graduate coursework in a focused area of study. Each certificate at UT Dallas consists of a subset of the courses from a current master's degree program offering. For a full list of our current certificate offerings please refer to www.utdallas.edu/academics/certificates.
Each certificate provides specialized training to help expand a student's areas of expertise, teaches them about new developments in their field, augments their professional skills and provides credentials that help advance their careers. In addition, the certificate offering enables students to test the waters before deciding to pursue a master's degree in that area. Students who are later accepted to the master's program may be allowed to count some or all of their completed certificate courses with grades of B or better toward their masters degrees. Students may pursue a graduate certificate and master's degree concurrently.
Admission to graduate-level certificate programs requires a bachelor's degree or its equivalent and an undergraduate record indicative of readiness for graduate work. Many certificate programs do not require admissions tests such as the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) or Graduate Management Admission Test (GMAT) unless or until a student seeks admission to a related master's program.
 
Admission and Enrollment Requirements Documentation
Complete and Accurate Academic Record
All applicants seeking admission to enroll in graduate coursework at UT Dallas must submit a complete and accurate record of all attempted and completed higher education coursework and degree conferral information. Depending on the institution, coursework and degree conferral information may be included in one or multiple documents. Applicants who have completed a relevant and acceptable master's degree and have submitted official degree conferral documentation are only required to submit unofficial copies of their baccalaureate (or equivalent) coursework and degree conferral.
Unofficial Transcript
The term "Unofficial Transcript" refers to a copy or electronically produced complete and accurate record of academic coursework by an applicant at a prior institution. The Unofficial Transcript should contain the same information that would be included on an Official Transcript, though the format of the Unofficial Transcript may be different. Any applicant that uploads an Unofficial Transcript is attesting to the accuracy of the academic record contained therein. It is the responsibility of the applicant to provide English translations of transcripts and documents that are in a language other than English.
Official Transcripts
The term "Official Transcript" refers to the official recorded results of the student's academic work electronically transferred from the issuing college or university directly to UT Dallas or contained in a sealed envelope signed and stamped by the registrar or by an authorized official of the issuing college or university. It is the responsibility of the applicant to provide English translations of transcripts and documents that are in a language other than English.
Submitting Academic Documentation
Unofficial documentation containing complete and accurate records of coursework should be electronically submitted for admission consideration. Admitted students must submit official documentation of the complete and accurate records of coursework and degree conferral after admission for enrollment purposes. Students who have completed a relevant master's degree and have submitted official master's degree conferral documentation are only required to submit unofficial copies of their baccalaureate degree transcripts and degree conferral prior to enrollment.
Electronic submission of any academic documentation is preferred. Please visit www.utdallas.edu/admissions for electronic submission instructions. 
If electronic submission of official documentation is not possible, official documentation may be sent to:
Office of Admission and EnrollmentThe University of Texas at Dallas800 West Campbell RoadRichardson, Texas 75080-3021
All materials submitted in the process of applying to the University become the property of the University and will not be returned to the applicant. Falsifying or omitting information may result in withdrawal of any offer of acceptance, cancellation of enrollment, and/or disciplinary actions.
Graduate Admission Examination Scores (GRE, GMAT)
Some degree programs require standardized tests scores (see graduate-admissions.utdallas.edu/degrees). Those test scores must be official and reported directly by the Educational Testing Service (ETS) electronically to The University of Texas at Dallas, Code 6897.
The information about the GRE and GMAT examinations given below was current at the time this catalog was published. Applicants should be advised that both examinations are undergoing changes in format and design.
Graduate Record Examination (GRE)
The GRE revised general test is offered on a year-round basis at regional testing centers in a computer-based testing (CBT) format. Information on regional CBT testing may be obtained directly from Graduate Record Examination, Educational Testing Service, P.O. Box 6000; Princeton, NJ 08541-6000; by phone 1-610-771-7670 or 1-866-473-4373, via email through its email form or direct email, or go to www.ets.org/gre. Applicants should specify by both institution and code that the test score be sent to The University of Texas at Dallas, Code 6897.
Graduate Management Admission Test (GMAT)
The GMAT is offered on a year-round basis at regional testing centers in a computer-based testing (CBT) format. Information on regional CBT testing sites may be obtained directly from the  GMAT website; by phone 1-800-717-GMAT (4628); via email; or go to www.mba.com. Applicants should specify by both institution and code that the test score be sent electronically to The University of Texas at Dallas, Code 6897.
Narrative
A narrative is uploaded to the online graduate application system in PDF format by the applicant outlining academic interests in the UT Dallas degree program of interest, current or long-range interests in research, teaching, or other professional objectives; describing publications or other scholarly endeavors; listing of academic and professional organizations and fellowships, scholarships, or other honors received  (for additional information see graduate-admissions.utdallas.edu/degrees).
Request for Recommendation Forms
Applicants must ask up to three individuals (employers, community leaders, teachers, etc.) who are able to judge their ability to complete the graduate study program and their probable success in graduate school by completing recommendation forms. These letters of recommendation are requested online as a part of the Graduate Application for Admission.
International applicants without Permanent Resident Visas must submit evidence of financial support (financial affidavit and original bank statement) before they can receive the I-20 or other required documents needed for visa application.
In accordance with Chapter 51, of the Texas Education Code, decisions on admission to degree-granting graduate programs at UT Dallas are based on holistic considerations of all submitted information regarding the academic, career, and personal histories of the applicants. 
Admission decisions are based on the applicant's composite achievement profile, including:

GPA in university level coursework
Strength of academic preparation
GRE or GMAT scores if required by program
Record of achievements, honors, and awards
Special accomplishments, work, and community service, both in and out of school
Essay, Narrative, of CV/Resume as specified by program requirements
Special circumstances that put academic achievements in context
Recommendations as specified by program requirements

Standardized test scores and coursework GPA levels cited in the catalog descriptions of some degree programs are listed for advisory purposes only, to indicate the typical achievement levels of students enrolled and succeeding in the various programs. No single quantitative or qualitative measure, or any specific combination thereof, constitutes a definitive standard for admission. Rather, each application will be considered individually and each applicant's complete profile of strengths and prospects for successful completion of the program will be evaluated by the admissions committee. Applicants are encouraged to contact the graduate advisor in the degree program in which they expect to enroll to discuss specific admission requirements.
Applicants who satisfy all of the above criteria qualify for regular admission to the degree program. Certain admission requirements, such as GRE or GMAT scores, may be subject to the terms of approved program agreements between UT Dallas and other partner institutions.
 
Documentation Inquiries
Questions related to admission documentation and the online graduate application system should be addressed to:
Office of Admission and EnrollmentThe University of Texas at Dallas800 West Campbell RoadRichardson, Texas 75080-3021
Telephone: 972-883-2270Toll Free Telephone: 800-889-2443Fax: 972-883-2599Email: admission@utdallas.edu
The Office of Admission and Enrollment is located in the Student Services Building.
 
Special Admission Requirements
Students denied the regular admission status may qualify for admission under one of the following special admission requirements:
Conditional Degree-Seeking Graduate Student
Upon review of the credentials of an applicant seeking regular admission to a UT Dallas degree program, the graduate studies committee of that degree program may recommend, and seek concurrence of the Dean of Graduate Education, that the applicant being admitted be subjected to specific conditions being satisfied over a specified time period. Such conditions might include requiring additional semester credit hours to be taken, and/or a specific GPA to be maintained. A student satisfying the conditional requirements within the specified time period will then qualify for regular admission. The graduate advisor in the academic program will monitor compliance with the admissions conditions. A student who does not fulfill the specified conditions within the time period specified at the time of admission will be barred from continued registration in the degree program.
Normally a student cannot remain in conditional status for more than one calendar year. Exceptions to the one-year limitation can be granted only by the Dean of Graduate Education upon recommendation of the graduate program. Under no circumstances will the student be allowed to remain enrolled under Conditional Status for more than 15 semester credit hours or two consecutive years, whichever comes first.  Within these limits, specified graduate level coursework taken as a conditionally admitted student can be applied to the degree program.
Non-Degree Seeking Graduate Student
A student wishing to take graduate level coursework without becoming a candidate for a graduate degree may apply for admission to UT Dallas as a non-degree seeking graduate student. The non-degree student seeking admission to the master's degree program must satisfy the condition of having an earned baccalaureate degree or its equivalent for admission to a master's degree program at UT Dallas. The applicant should consult with the department or program offering the graduate level coursework to determine GRE/GMAT and letters of recommendation requirements.
The applicant should consult with the graduate advisor in the department or program offering the graduate level coursework. The graduate advisor in the degree program will define specific eligibility requirements and admit students to the courses open to non-degree enrollment each semester. Enrollment as a non-degree student is restricted to the regular registration period each semester. Please refer to the graduate catalog in each school for additional information on prerequisite requirements for each course.
Enrollment as a non-degree seeking graduate student is subject to review and approval by the Associate Dean of Graduate Studies in the specific school. Students admitted as non-degree seeking may not be eligible for financial aid and should consult the UT Dallas Financial Aid office regarding their status prior to submission of their application for admission.
Completion of courses as a non-degree seeking student does not guarantee admission to a graduate program. Non-degree seeking students who wish to apply to a degree program should consult the graduate advisor in the department or program offering graduate coursework. If admitted to a degree program, the student should consult individual school policies for the number of semester credit hours taken as a non-degree student that can be transferred to the degree program. However, no more than 15 semester credit hours taken as a non-degree enrolled student at UT Dallas may be transferred to satisfy the requirements of a graduate degree program, except with the permission of the Dean of Graduate Education.
NOTE: International students are eligible to maintain F or J immigration status if enrolled as non-degree seeking students. Eligible international students include those enrolling in pre-established international exchange mobility programs, transient or visiting F-1 and J-1 students whose immigration documents are issued by another U.S. college or university and students directly enrolling at UT Dallas while pursuing an academic program at a university outside of the U.S.
Graduate Student Taking Only Undergraduate Courses
Upon review of the academic background leading to the award of a bachelor's degree or its equivalent by the academic advisor in the graduate program, a student may elect to take or be restricted to taking only undergraduate level courses.  The Associate Dean of Graduate Studies and/or Associate Dean for Undergraduate Studies in the specific school must approve enrollment in the undergraduate courses and the student will be required to maintain the same scholastic standards as regularly admitted undergraduates.  In addition, the student will receive academic guidance from the advisor in the school. Students restricted to taking undergraduate courses may not take graduate courses in a degree program at the same time. Consultation with the UT Dallas Office of Financial Aid regarding aid eligibility is strongly advised before enrolling.
English Proficiency Requirements for International Applicants
International applicants must demonstrate English proficiency.
English proficiency requirements can be met by:

Achieving a minimum score of 550 on the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) PBT (paper-based test),
Achieving a minimum score of 80 on the TOEFL IBT (Internet-based test),
A minimum score of 6.5 on the International English Language Testing System (IELTS) test,
A minimum score of 67 on the Pearson's Test of English Academic (PTE), or
A minimum score of 105 on the Duolingo English Test, or
A successful completion in level 112 of English from the ELS Language Centers, www.els.edu.

This requirement should be met at the time the admission application is submitted. Applicants with lower scores will be considered but are advised to improve their test scores and reapply.
Applicants native to a country where the primary language is English or who have earned a baccalaureate degree or a masters degree from an accredited institution of higher education where the language of instruction and examination was in English may be considered to have met the English proficiency requirement. Scores must not be more than two years old, and an official copy must be sent from the testing agency to:
Office of Admission and EnrollmentThe University of Texas at Dallas800 West Campbell RoadRichardson, Texas 75080-3021
Higher scores may be required if the applicant is to succeed in the competition for Teaching Assistant openings.
English Requirements for Teaching Assistants
Students are required to be able to speak and write English clearly and well. Texas state law and regulations, Texas Education Code, Section 51.917, require that international students appointed as Teaching Assistants (TA's) be proficient in the use of the English language. An English Proficiency Interview conducted under the auspices of the office of the Dean of Graduate Education will be used to screen for students requiring remedial help in the form of English as a Second Language (ESL) course. International students must satisfy the proficiency requirement upon appointment or pass the ESL course within two semesters to be eligible for consideration of continued appointment as a TA. Regardless of test scores, students must meet the language requirements of their programs.
Admissions Consideration for Applicants with Three-Year Undergraduate Degrees
Applicants with three-year undergraduate degrees will be considered for admission into our master's programs. Their candidacy will be reviewed holistically considering all of the following variables: admission test scores, English proficiency scores if applicable, undergraduate grade point average, official transcripts from all previous institutions, undergraduate degree major and awarding institution, resume, recommendations and personal objective statement.

Updated: 2021-08-23 10:10:05 v8.7b1c8a




