



Criminology - UT Dallas 2013 Undergraduate Catalog - The University of Texas at Dallas































Jump to content
Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Catalog Home 
Undergraduate Catalogs 


2022 Undergraduate Catalog2021 Undergraduate Catalog2020 Undergraduate Catalog2019 Undergraduate Catalog2018 Undergraduate Catalog2017 Undergraduate Catalog2016 Undergraduate Catalog


 
Graduate Catalogs 


2022 Graduate Catalog2021 Graduate Catalog2020 Graduate Catalog2019 Graduate Catalog2018 Graduate Catalog2017 Graduate Catalog2016 Graduate Catalog









UT Dallas 2013 Undergraduate CatalogCriminologyCRIM 1301 (CRIJ 1301) Introduction to Criminal Justice (3 semester hours) An overview and analysis of the major agencies, personnel, and decision-making points which comprise the criminal justice system. Includes problems and issues confronting legislatures, police, courts, corrections, and the community, as they respond to crime in a free society. Legal precedents guiding the decisions of criminal justice agents are also discussed. (3-0) YCRIM 1307 (CRIJ 1307) Introduction to Crime and Criminology (3 semester hours) Survey of the nature, location, and impact of crime in America. Includes historical foundations of crime, theoretical explanations of criminality and delinquency, the recording and measurement of crime, descriptions of criminal careers, crime topologies, and an analysis of public policies concerning crime control. (3-0) YCRIM 2306 (CRIJ 1310) Criminal Law (3 semester hours) This course will examine the statutory basis of crime, the legal requirements surrounding the establishment of "mens rea" and legally permissible defenses permitted under criminal due process. Emphasis is placed on both criminal statutes and case law. (3-0) TCRIM 2308 (CRIJ 1313) Juvenile Law (3 semester hours) This course examines the statutory bases which distinguish delinquency from adult crime and the juvenile justice system from the criminal justice system. Emphasis is placed on the rationale for treating juveniles accused of crime differently than their adult counterparts. (3-0) RCRIM 2313 (CRIJ 2328) Police and Society (3 semester hours) This course examines the central issues of enforcing law and promoting public safety in society with emphasis placed on both internal organizational issues of police administration and external enforcement operations. (3-0) RCRIM 2316 (CRIJ 2313) Corrections (3 semester hours) This course will provide an introduction to the history and background of American corrections and the fundamental theories of punishment and treatment. Emphasis will be placed on the policies, practices, and issues within the correctional system, the incarceration of criminal populations in jails and prisons, and the expansion of community-based corrections. (3-0) RCRIM 2317 (CRIJ 1306) Criminal Prosecution and Court Process (3 semester hours) This course examines the processes and politics of bringing criminal defendants to trial. Topics also include decision making points and the constitutional system of criminal due process under which criminal law is practiced. (3-0) RCRIM 3300 Crime and Civil Liberties (3 semester hours) The functions of the police, courts, prosecution, and corrections are analyzed within a context in which constitutional rights and civil liberties affect the functioning of the criminal justice system. Major emphasis is placed on the extent to which civil liberties and procedural rights constrain or limit the system's effectiveness in delivering crime control, while at the same time ensuring justice. (3-0) TCRIM 3301 Theories of Justice (3 semester hours) Survey of the basic theoretical rationales and perspectives concerning the concept of justice with selected readings from classical and contemporary theorists. (3-0) RCRIM 3302 Advanced Criminology (3 semester hours) This course provides students with an in-depth study of crime, criminals, and the reaction of the criminal justice system to both. It explores the interrelationships among law, policy, and societal conditions. The major focus of the course is theoretical explanations for crime and criminality. Prerequisite: CRIM 1307. (3-0) YCRIM 3303 Advanced Criminal Justice (3 semester hours) Analyzes the major agencies, personnel, and decision-making points which comprise the criminal justice system. Explores some of the major theories and research about the roles that the various agencies and actors play in the criminal justice system. Includes discussion of the problems and current issues confronting legislatures, police, courts, corrections, and the community, as they respond to crime. Prerequisite: CRIM 1301. (3-0) YCRIM 3304 Research Methods in Crime and Justice Studies (3 semester hours) Examines methods of crime and justice research. Topics include the nature of scientific inquiry, framing a research problem, choosing a research design, developing hypotheses, sampling designs, and measuring variables. Topics will be covered as students conduct their own study. (Same as PA 3304 and SOC 3304) (3-0) YCRIM 3307 Immigration and Crime (3 semester hours) The course emphasizes the practices and policies of law enforcement's efforts to control illegal immigration, including the relationship between illegal immigration and counterterrorism, as well as victimization experienced by immigrants. (3-0) RCRIM 3309 Media and Crime (3 semester hours) Examines the media's image of crime and the criminal justice system. An emphasis is placed on how various types of media construct or perceive criminal activities, how the media influences public policy and shapes perceptions of crime as a social problem. Topics include crime news, films and television dramas depicting crime and criminals, the media as a cause, consequence and cure for crime and news-making criminology. (3-0) RCRIM 3310 Youth Crime and Justice (3 semester hours) Examines the concept of juvenile delinquency as a distinct type of criminal activity from that committed by adults and assesses the distinct juvenile justice system that has evolved to handle children. Topics will include the historical roots of delinquency and the juvenile justice system, delinquency measurement, explanations of delinquency, and the socio-demographic correlates of delinquency status. (3-0) RCRIM 3312 Drugs and Crime (3 semester hours) Provides students with a survey of legislation that has been attempted to combat the use of drugs, the relationship between drug use/abuse and crime, and the public policy problem surrounding the control of drugs. Topics include a historical analysis of the laws passed to control drugs, the relationship between drugs and crime, and a policy analysis of the alternative means available to deal with the drugs/crime problem. (3-0) RCRIM 3319 Comparative Justice Systems (3 semester hours) Survey of the differing policies, practices, and procedures of crime and justice cross-nationally. Special emphasis will be devoted to U.S. / Mexico comparisons, while additional emphasis will be placed on such comparisons as U.S. / Canada and U.S. / England. (3-0) RCRIM 3320 Homicide and Capital Punishment (3 semester hours) Examines the policy and legal controversies surrounding the application of capital punishment (i.e., the death penalty) as a punishment for homicide. Topics include capital punishment through history, U.S. Supreme Court decisions and contemporary problems with the application of the death penalty. The course will also analyze the nature, extent, and distribution of criminal homicide. (3-0) RCRIM 3323 Violence and Gun Control (3 semester hours) The primary purpose of this course is the examination of facts surrounding one of the most heated issues of our times: the relationship between guns, violence and gun control. The course provides a comprehensive criminological view of the topic rather than a political or legal one. Students will learn about evaluating evidence, the "stricter gun law" debate, and flaws in arguments on both sides of the issue as well as tricks used by advocates to persuade people to agree with their point of view. (3-0) RCRIM 3324 Gender, Crime, and Justice (3 semester hours) Analysis of the role of gender crime and the justice system. The emphasis is on gender differences in the commission of crime and the types of crimes committed, criminal justice processing, and the employment of women in the criminal justice professions. (3-0) TCRIM 3325 Victimology (3 semester hours) Analyzes the major perspectives on victimization. The emphasis is on patterns of victimization, the role of victims in the generation of crime, and the experience of victims in the criminal justice system. Special attention will be devoted to: sources of data (particularly the National Crime Victimization Survey), trends, variations by demography and offense type and ways in which those variations may affect how criminal justice officials respond to particular types of offenses. (3-0) RCRIM 3326 Victimless Crimes (3 semester hours) Examines public order crimes, which includes a variety of behaviors that are illegal yet generally perceived by those engaging in them to be legitimate, justified, and acceptable. Many such offenses are illegal only because the government has said so, especially public order violations where there may be no identifiable victim. The objective of this course is to develop an understanding of the complexities and controversies that swirl around these offenses. Prerequisite: CRIM 1301 or CRIM 1307. (3-0) RCRIM 3327 Violent Crime (3 semester hours) This course explores the etiology, enactment, and control of serious interpersonal violence. The analytic focus includes robbery, homicide, aggravated assault, sexual assault, state violence, and white collar violence. Prerequisite: CRIM 1301 or CRIM 1307. (3-0) RCRIM 4311 Crime and Justice Policy (3 semester hours) In-depth analysis of crime and the efforts to control crime through public policy. Although crime is most often committed by private persons against individual victims, crime is a public problem and society's reaction to crime and criminals is one of the most controversial areas of public policy. Crime control, deterrence and incapacitation, gun control, law enforcement, and court processes are just a few of the areas in which public opinion and policy are in current controversy and debate. Prerequisite: CRIM 3302 or CRIM 3303. (3-0) RCRIM 4315 Race, Ethnicity, and Justice (3 semester hours) Examines how race and ethnicity pose differential risks for criminal behavior in conjunction with differential justice system responses to crime and criminals in minority communities. Prerequisite: CRIM 3302 or CRIM 3303. (3-0) RCRIM 4322 Senior Research Seminar (3 semester hours) Major concepts and principles of Criminology will be applied to the analysis of crime. Capstone required course for senior Criminology majors. Completion of all, or concurrent enrollment in, major requirements. (3-0) TCRIM 4323 Communities and Crime (3 semester hours) Analyzes the sources, consequences, and control of crime within communities. The emphasis is on social and ecological theories of crime, and on population instability, family structure, and the concentration of poverty as causes of crime. Community crime prevention efforts are also discussed. Prerequisite: CRIM 3302. (3-0) TCRIM 4324 White Collar Crime (3 semester hours) Examines the criminality of individuals from higher social statuses, organizations, professions, and businesses. Also examined are individual crimes of trust (e.g., tax evasion, embezzlement, etc.) that are qualitatively different from traditional street crimes (e.g., burglary, robbery, etc.), but are not necessarily limited to corporations or individuals of high social status. Theories relevant to the etiology of such acts are considered as well as policies relevant to the punishment and prevention of white collar crime. (3-0) RCRIM 4336 Introduction to Terrorism (3 semester hours) Examines the origins, nature, and operational characteristics of terrorist groups around the world. Students are exposed to a wide range of topics, ranging from the definition of terrorism to the unique characteristics of terrorist cells in the United States and abroad. Historical and contemporary terrorist attacks are explored within their context. (3-0) RCRIM 4337 Landmark Supreme Court Cases (3 semester hours) Discusses important U.S. Supreme Court decisions and their influence in criminal justice. Special attention is given to the Bill of Rights and other key constitutional provisions of relevance in the areas of police, courts, corrections, and crime control policy. (3-0) RCRIM 4396 Selected Topics in Criminology (3 semester hours) Subject matter will vary from semester to semester. Examples include "Gangs," "Organized Crime," "White Collar Crime," "Criminalistics," and "Gun Control." May be repeated for credit (9 hours maximum). (3-0) RCRIM 4v97 Independent Study in Criminology (1-6 semester hours) Independent study under a CRIM faculty member's direction. Prerequisite: Instructor consent required. May be repeated for credit (6 hours maximum). ([1-6]-0) SCRIM 4v98 Internship in Criminology (1-6 semester hours) May be repeated for credit (6 hours maximum). This course can only be taken Credit/No Credit. Prerequisite: Instructor consent required ([1-6]-0) SCRIM 4v99 Senior Honors in Criminology (1-6 semester hours) For students conducting independent research for honors theses or projects. Prerequisite: Instructor consent required. May be repeated for credit (6 hours maximum). ([1-6]-0) Sbugz












2013 Undergraduate Catalog

General Information

About the 2013 Catalog
About UT Dallas
University Officers
UT System Regents
Contact Information
Faculty Roster
Search 2013 Undergraduate Catalog

Undergraduate Programs

Arts and Humanities

Art and Performance
ATEC
EMAC
Historical Studies
Literary Studies

Behavioral and Brain Sciences

Child Learning and Development
Cognitive Science
Neuroscience
Psychology
Speech-Language Pathology and Audiology

Economic, Political and Policy Sciences

Criminology
Criminology and Biology
Economics
Economics and Finance
Geospatial Information Sciences
International Political Economy
Political Science
Public Affairs
Sociology

Engineering and Computer Science

Biomedical Engineering
Computer Engineering
Computer Science
Electrical Engineering
Mechanical Engineering
Software Engineering
Telecommunications Engineering

Interdisciplinary Studies

American Studies
Healthcare Studies
Interdisciplinary Studies

Jindal School of Management

Accounting
Business Administration
Business Administration and Biology
Business Administration and Molecular Biology
Finance
Finance and Economics
Global Business
Management Information Systems
Marketing
Supply Chain Management

Natural Science and Mathematics

Actuarial Science
Biochemistry
Biology
Biology and Business Administration
Biology and Criminology
Chemistry
Geosciences
Mathematics
Molecular Biology
Molecular Biology and Business Administration
Physics
Biomedical Sciences (Cert)

Teacher Certification

Undergraduate Courses

Undergraduate Courses by Subject
Undergraduate Courses by School
Undergraduate Interdisciplinary Courses
Undergraduate Developmental Courses

Undergraduate Admission

About Admission
Application Fees and Deadlines
Freshman Admission
International Student Admission
Readmission
Special Admissions
Transfer Student Admissions

Undergraduate Curriculum

About Curriculum
Core Curriculum
Honors Programs
Other Degree Requirements

Tuition and Financial Aid

About Tuition and Financial Aid
Excessive Undergraduate Hours
Refund of Tuition and Fees
Other User Fees
Financial Aid
Types of Financial Aid

Policies and Procedures

List of Undergraduate Policies

Academic
Admission
Change of Address
Correspondence - Email
Courses
Degree Plans
Disciplinary Actions
FERPA
Graduate Courses
Graduation
International Education
Military Service
Registration
Religious Holy Days
Student Travel


University Resources

List of Resources

General Resources
Health Resources
Professional Resources
Student Complaint Resources


Catalog Appendices

Appendix I - Rules, Regulations, and Statutory Requirements
Appendix II - Transfer of Lower-Division Course Credit







The University of Texas at DallasUT Dallas ProvostCourseBookContact the Provost's Technology Group






(null clip target)













