



Interdisciplinary Studies-EE and CS - UT Dallas 2013 Undergraduate Catalog - The University of Texas at Dallas































Jump to content
Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Catalog Home 
Undergraduate Catalogs 


2022 Undergraduate Catalog2021 Undergraduate Catalog2020 Undergraduate Catalog2019 Undergraduate Catalog2018 Undergraduate Catalog2017 Undergraduate Catalog2016 Undergraduate Catalog


 
Graduate Catalogs 


2022 Graduate Catalog2021 Graduate Catalog2020 Graduate Catalog2019 Graduate Catalog2018 Graduate Catalog2017 Graduate Catalog2016 Graduate Catalog









UT Dallas 2013 Undergraduate CatalogInterdisciplinary Studies-EE and CSISEC 4102 Computer Art Laboratory (1 semester hour) This course involves the creation and use of algorithms for art on microcomputers. Will not satisfy core requirement in Natural Sciences. Corequisite: ISEC 4201. (0-2) RISEC 4201 (2 semester hours) This course explores the problems, tools, and opportunities presented to the artist by the birth of this new medium. From the analytic aspects of computer graphics to the aesthetics of interactive design, the wide range of extant techniques foreshadows the richness of future computer art. Will not satisfy core requirement in Natural Sciences. Corequisite: ISEC 4102. (2-0) RISEC 4395 Computing in Society (3 semester hours) Computing in society and business. The Internet. Information Technology: principles, practices, risks, and opportunities. Tour of a computer system. Software systems. The social context of computing. Careers in computing. Popular culture in the Digital Age. The risks of technology: ACM code of ethics, computer crime, system disasters. Human rights and privacy issues. Computers and education. (3-0) RISEC 4v87 Special Interdisciplinary Topics in Engineering or Computer Science (1-6 semester hours) Subject matter will vary from semester to semester. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 hours maximum). ([1-6]-0) Rbugz












2013 Undergraduate Catalog

General Information

About the 2013 Catalog
About UT Dallas
University Officers
UT System Regents
Contact Information
Faculty Roster
Search 2013 Undergraduate Catalog

Undergraduate Programs

Arts and Humanities

Art and Performance
ATEC
EMAC
Historical Studies
Literary Studies

Behavioral and Brain Sciences

Child Learning and Development
Cognitive Science
Neuroscience
Psychology
Speech-Language Pathology and Audiology

Economic, Political and Policy Sciences

Criminology
Criminology and Biology
Economics
Economics and Finance
Geospatial Information Sciences
International Political Economy
Political Science
Public Affairs
Sociology

Engineering and Computer Science

Biomedical Engineering
Computer Engineering
Computer Science
Electrical Engineering
Mechanical Engineering
Software Engineering
Telecommunications Engineering

Interdisciplinary Studies

American Studies
Healthcare Studies
Interdisciplinary Studies

Jindal School of Management

Accounting
Business Administration
Business Administration and Biology
Business Administration and Molecular Biology
Finance
Finance and Economics
Global Business
Management Information Systems
Marketing
Supply Chain Management

Natural Science and Mathematics

Actuarial Science
Biochemistry
Biology
Biology and Business Administration
Biology and Criminology
Chemistry
Geosciences
Mathematics
Molecular Biology
Molecular Biology and Business Administration
Physics
Biomedical Sciences (Cert)

Teacher Certification

Undergraduate Courses

Undergraduate Courses by Subject
Undergraduate Courses by School
Undergraduate Interdisciplinary Courses
Undergraduate Developmental Courses

Undergraduate Admission

About Admission
Application Fees and Deadlines
Freshman Admission
International Student Admission
Readmission
Special Admissions
Transfer Student Admissions

Undergraduate Curriculum

About Curriculum
Core Curriculum
Honors Programs
Other Degree Requirements

Tuition and Financial Aid

About Tuition and Financial Aid
Excessive Undergraduate Hours
Refund of Tuition and Fees
Other User Fees
Financial Aid
Types of Financial Aid

Policies and Procedures

List of Undergraduate Policies

Academic
Admission
Change of Address
Correspondence - Email
Courses
Degree Plans
Disciplinary Actions
FERPA
Graduate Courses
Graduation
International Education
Military Service
Registration
Religious Holy Days
Student Travel


University Resources

List of Resources

General Resources
Health Resources
Professional Resources
Student Complaint Resources


Catalog Appendices

Appendix I - Rules, Regulations, and Statutory Requirements
Appendix II - Transfer of Lower-Division Course Credit







The University of Texas at DallasUT Dallas ProvostCourseBookContact the Provost's Technology Group






(null clip target)













