



Real Estate - UT Dallas 2013 Undergraduate Catalog - The University of Texas at Dallas































Jump to content
Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Catalog Home 
Undergraduate Catalogs 


2022 Undergraduate Catalog2021 Undergraduate Catalog2020 Undergraduate Catalog2019 Undergraduate Catalog2018 Undergraduate Catalog2017 Undergraduate Catalog2016 Undergraduate Catalog


 
Graduate Catalogs 


2022 Graduate Catalog2021 Graduate Catalog2020 Graduate Catalog2019 Graduate Catalog2018 Graduate Catalog2017 Graduate Catalog2016 Graduate Catalog









UT Dallas 2013 Undergraduate CatalogReal EstateREAL 3305 Real Estate Principles (3 semester hours) Survey of various aspects of the real estate business and economics, including marketing, finance, taxation, investment, development, law, appraisal, and valuation. (Same as FIN 3305) (3-0) SREAL 3365 Real Estate Finance and Advanced Principles (3 semester hours) Survey of the institutions in real estate finance and factors affecting the flow of funds; investment analysis and procedures involved in real estate financing. Prerequisite: FIN 3320. (Same as FIN 3365) (3-0) SREAL 4321 Real Estate Law and Contracts (3 semester hours) Study of the legal principles governing real estate transactions. Topics include contract law, estates in land, forms of ownership, deeds, mortgages, title insurance, agency and homestead. Prerequisite or corequisite: REAL 3305 or FIN 3305. (Same as FIN 4321) (3-0) YREAL 4328 Real Estate Valuation (3 semester hours) This capstone real estate course provides the theory and methods of residential and income property valuation and appraisal. Topics include the three major approaches to appraising real estate, regression analysis, real estate market analysis, highest and best use analysis and capitalization techniques. Income property valuation techniques are emphasized. Several cases and problems are presented and solved. Prerequisites: ((REAL 3305 or FIN 3305) or (REAL 3365 or FIN 3365)) and FIN 3320. (Same as FIN 4328) (3-0) YREAL 4365 Real Estate Accounting, Taxation and Legal Concepts (3 semester hours) This course provides a review of accounting, tax and legal issues affecting the real estate industry. Material includes special rules used by owners and developers of real estate. May not be used to satisfy degree requirements for majors in accounting. Prerequisite: ACCT 3320 or ACCT 3331. (Same as ACCT 4365) (3-0) RREAL 4v80 Internship in Real Estate (1-3 semester hours) This course provides students with an opportunity to expand and apply their skills in a professional setting. Students must identify and submit specific business learning objectives at the beginning of the semester. This course requires faculty sponsor approval, a written report upon completion and employer evaluation. In addition, this course is offered on a Credit/No Credit basis, but it can be repeated for credit up to a maximum of 3 hours. ([1-3]-0) RREAL 4v90 Individual Study in Real Estate (1-3 semester hours) For students interested in pursuing further study of a topic in real estate. This course requires faculty sponsor approval and completion of REAL 3365 or REAL 4365. This course may be repeated for credit up to a maximum of 3 hours. ([1-3]-0) Rbugz












2013 Undergraduate Catalog

General Information

About the 2013 Catalog
About UT Dallas
University Officers
UT System Regents
Contact Information
Faculty Roster
Search 2013 Undergraduate Catalog

Undergraduate Programs

Arts and Humanities

Art and Performance
ATEC
EMAC
Historical Studies
Literary Studies

Behavioral and Brain Sciences

Child Learning and Development
Cognitive Science
Neuroscience
Psychology
Speech-Language Pathology and Audiology

Economic, Political and Policy Sciences

Criminology
Criminology and Biology
Economics
Economics and Finance
Geospatial Information Sciences
International Political Economy
Political Science
Public Affairs
Sociology

Engineering and Computer Science

Biomedical Engineering
Computer Engineering
Computer Science
Electrical Engineering
Mechanical Engineering
Software Engineering
Telecommunications Engineering

Interdisciplinary Studies

American Studies
Healthcare Studies
Interdisciplinary Studies

Jindal School of Management

Accounting
Business Administration
Business Administration and Biology
Business Administration and Molecular Biology
Finance
Finance and Economics
Global Business
Management Information Systems
Marketing
Supply Chain Management

Natural Science and Mathematics

Actuarial Science
Biochemistry
Biology
Biology and Business Administration
Biology and Criminology
Chemistry
Geosciences
Mathematics
Molecular Biology
Molecular Biology and Business Administration
Physics
Biomedical Sciences (Cert)

Teacher Certification

Undergraduate Courses

Undergraduate Courses by Subject
Undergraduate Courses by School
Undergraduate Interdisciplinary Courses
Undergraduate Developmental Courses

Undergraduate Admission

About Admission
Application Fees and Deadlines
Freshman Admission
International Student Admission
Readmission
Special Admissions
Transfer Student Admissions

Undergraduate Curriculum

About Curriculum
Core Curriculum
Honors Programs
Other Degree Requirements

Tuition and Financial Aid

About Tuition and Financial Aid
Excessive Undergraduate Hours
Refund of Tuition and Fees
Other User Fees
Financial Aid
Types of Financial Aid

Policies and Procedures

List of Undergraduate Policies

Academic
Admission
Change of Address
Correspondence - Email
Courses
Degree Plans
Disciplinary Actions
FERPA
Graduate Courses
Graduation
International Education
Military Service
Registration
Religious Holy Days
Student Travel


University Resources

List of Resources

General Resources
Health Resources
Professional Resources
Student Complaint Resources


Catalog Appendices

Appendix I - Rules, Regulations, and Statutory Requirements
Appendix II - Transfer of Lower-Division Course Credit







The University of Texas at DallasUT Dallas ProvostCourseBookContact the Provost's Technology Group






(null clip target)













