



Creative Writing - UT Dallas 2013 Undergraduate Catalog - The University of Texas at Dallas































Jump to content
Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Catalog Home 
Undergraduate Catalogs 


2022 Undergraduate Catalog2021 Undergraduate Catalog2020 Undergraduate Catalog2019 Undergraduate Catalog2018 Undergraduate Catalog2017 Undergraduate Catalog2016 Undergraduate Catalog


 
Graduate Catalogs 


2022 Graduate Catalog2021 Graduate Catalog2020 Graduate Catalog2019 Graduate Catalog2018 Graduate Catalog2017 Graduate Catalog2016 Graduate Catalog









UT Dallas 2013 Undergraduate CatalogCreative WritingCRWT 2301 Introductory Creative Writing (3 semester hours) An introduction to creative writing, the course will investigate and instruct students in the elementary approach to the process of creating original prose, poetry, and/or dramatic format works. The class will focus on a minimum of two genres and will cover both experimental and traditional forms. Prerequisite: RHET 1302. (3-0) SCRWT 2v71 Independent Study in Creative Writing (1-3 semester hours) Independent study under a faculty member's direction. Signature of instructor and ADU on proposed project outline required. May be repeated for credit (9 hours maximum). Prerequisite: Instructor Consent Required. ([1-3]-0) RCRWT 3307 Creating Short Stories (3 semester hours) A creative workshop on the art of the short story which both investigates the creative techniques and processes involved in writing short stories and also concentrates on a variety of experimental and traditional forms that combine the art of words with the visual and performing arts. May be repeated for credit (9 hours maximum). Prerequisite: CRWT 2301 or instructor consent required. (3-0) TCRWT 3308 Creating Nonfictions (3 semester hours) A creative workshop built on the aesthetic techniques and aesthetic processes used to create personal essays, biographies, and autobiographies as works of art. Topics will vary. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 hours maximum). Prerequisite: CRWT 2301 or instructor consent required. (3-0) TCRWT 3351 Creating Poetry (3 semester hours) A creative workshop on the art of poetry which investigates the creative techniques and processes involved in writing poems in various, often opposing, forms that combine the art of words with the visual and performing arts. May be repeated for credit (9 hours maximum). Prerequisite: CRWT 2301 or instructor consent required. (3-0) TCRWT 3360 Art Criticism (3 semester hours) This seminar provides a context for practice in the writing of art criticism. Subjects selected for examination may include visual arts, film, dance, theater, music, fiction, and poetry. Prerequisites: ARTS 1301 and CRWT 2301 or equivalent. May be repeated for credit (6 hours maximum). (3-0) RCRWT 4307 Creating Short Stories: Advanced (3 semester hours) An advanced workshop on the creation and theory of the short story that will focus both on structure and on creative techniques and creative process involved in writing sophisticated, challenging, and linguistically developed short stories. May be repeated for credit (9 hours maximum). Prerequisite: CRWT 3307 or instructor consent required. (3-0) TCRWT 4353 Creating Poetry: Advanced (3 semester hours) An advanced workshop on the creation, history, and theory of poetry that will focus on the creative techniques and the creative process involved in writing formalist, lyrical, free verse, and experimental poetry. May be repeated for credit (9 hours maximum). Prerequisite: CRWT 3351 or instructor consent required. (3-0) TCRWT 4354 Creating Play, Movie, and Television Scripts (3 semester hours) An advanced workshop on the aesthetics, art, and creation of play, movie, and television scripts which will focus on the creative techniques and the creative process involved not only in the creation of film, play, and television scripts, but also in the production of plays, films, and television episodes. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 hours maximum). Prerequisite: CRWT 2301 or instructor consent required. (3-0) TCRWT 4v71 Independent Study in Creative Writing (1-3 semester hours) Independent study under a faculty member's direction. Signature of instructor and ADU on proposed project outline required. May be repeated for credit (9 hours maximum). Prerequisite: Upper-division standing and instructor consent required. ([1-3]-0) Rbugz












2013 Undergraduate Catalog

General Information

About the 2013 Catalog
About UT Dallas
University Officers
UT System Regents
Contact Information
Faculty Roster
Search 2013 Undergraduate Catalog

Undergraduate Programs

Arts and Humanities

Art and Performance
ATEC
EMAC
Historical Studies
Literary Studies

Behavioral and Brain Sciences

Child Learning and Development
Cognitive Science
Neuroscience
Psychology
Speech-Language Pathology and Audiology

Economic, Political and Policy Sciences

Criminology
Criminology and Biology
Economics
Economics and Finance
Geospatial Information Sciences
International Political Economy
Political Science
Public Affairs
Sociology

Engineering and Computer Science

Biomedical Engineering
Computer Engineering
Computer Science
Electrical Engineering
Mechanical Engineering
Software Engineering
Telecommunications Engineering

Interdisciplinary Studies

American Studies
Healthcare Studies
Interdisciplinary Studies

Jindal School of Management

Accounting
Business Administration
Business Administration and Biology
Business Administration and Molecular Biology
Finance
Finance and Economics
Global Business
Management Information Systems
Marketing
Supply Chain Management

Natural Science and Mathematics

Actuarial Science
Biochemistry
Biology
Biology and Business Administration
Biology and Criminology
Chemistry
Geosciences
Mathematics
Molecular Biology
Molecular Biology and Business Administration
Physics
Biomedical Sciences (Cert)

Teacher Certification

Undergraduate Courses

Undergraduate Courses by Subject
Undergraduate Courses by School
Undergraduate Interdisciplinary Courses
Undergraduate Developmental Courses

Undergraduate Admission

About Admission
Application Fees and Deadlines
Freshman Admission
International Student Admission
Readmission
Special Admissions
Transfer Student Admissions

Undergraduate Curriculum

About Curriculum
Core Curriculum
Honors Programs
Other Degree Requirements

Tuition and Financial Aid

About Tuition and Financial Aid
Excessive Undergraduate Hours
Refund of Tuition and Fees
Other User Fees
Financial Aid
Types of Financial Aid

Policies and Procedures

List of Undergraduate Policies

Academic
Admission
Change of Address
Correspondence - Email
Courses
Degree Plans
Disciplinary Actions
FERPA
Graduate Courses
Graduation
International Education
Military Service
Registration
Religious Holy Days
Student Travel


University Resources

List of Resources

General Resources
Health Resources
Professional Resources
Student Complaint Resources


Catalog Appendices

Appendix I - Rules, Regulations, and Statutory Requirements
Appendix II - Transfer of Lower-Division Course Credit







The University of Texas at DallasUT Dallas ProvostCourseBookContact the Provost's Technology Group






(null clip target)













