


Resources for Study and Campus Life - University Resources (Print Version)









UT Dallas 2021 Undergraduate Catalog
Resources for Study and Campus Life
Callier Center for Communication Disorders
The Callier Center is an internationally recognized institution that offers services to people who have any type of communication disorder. Acknowledged for meeting the assessment, treatment, education, and social service needs of children and adults with communication disorders, the Center has programs in preschool education, parent education, and child development. Its clinical services include pediatric and adult services in audiology, speech pathology, and language development; its research activities include psychoacoustics, auditory neurophysiology, speech science, and audiology. Graduate classes are conducted at the Callier Center-Dallas facility, adjacent to The UT Southwestern Medical Center and at the Callier Center-Richardson facility on the main UT Dallas campus.
Campus Solicitation & Commercial Speech
In accordance to Regents' Rule, 80103 and the Speech and Expression Assembly Policy, UTDSP5001, Section B, Subsection 8, no University person, University organization, or member of the public shall make, distribute, or display on the campus any statement that offers or advertises any product or service for sale or lease, or requests any gift or contribution, except as authorized in this Subsection, by the Regents' Rules and Regulations, or by a contract.
Rules Specific to UT Dallas campus constituents:

A registered student, faculty, or staff organization may advertise or sell merchandise, publications, food, or nonalcoholic beverages, or request contributions, for the benefit of the organization, for the benefit of another registered student, faculty, or staff organization, or for the benefit of an organization that is tax-exempt under Subsection 501 (c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code. No organization may sell items obtained on consignment. No organization may request contributions for an off-campus tax-exempt organization for more than fourteen days in any fiscal year.
Registered student, faculty, and staff organizations, and academic and administrative units, may sell, distribute, or display literature that contains advertising, subject to the limits in Section D. Individual students, faculty members, and staff members may distribute or display such literature, but may not sell it.
Individual students, faculty members, and staff members may post advertisements for roommates, subleases, and sales of used goods that the seller has personally owned and used, but only on a bulletin board designated for that purpose by an academic or administrative unit in space that the unit occupies or controls. Any unit that designates a bulletin board for this purpose may regulate that bulletin board under the procedures set forth by that unit.
A resident of a University residence hall or apartment building may occasionally invite one or more salespersons to come to the resident's room or apartment, and in that room or apartment, the salesperson may offer products or services for sale to other residents of that residence hall or apartment building.
As per Regents' Rules and Regulations (Rule 80103, 2.2.9), registered student, faculty, or staff organizations may collect admission fees for programs scheduled in advance.
A registered student, faculty, or staff organization may sell charitable raffle tickets on behalf of an organization that is authorized to conduct a charitable raffle under the Texas Charitable Raffle Enabling Act, Texas Occupations Code (Policy 2002), or successor provisions.

Violations of the above policy are outlined in the Speech and Expression Assembly Policy, UTDSP5001, Section L, Subsection 49: (a) students will be reported to the Dean of Students, (b) the Office of the Vice President of Academic Affairs and Provost will handle faculty violations; and (c) staff members should be referred to the staff members supervisor.  Students wishing to make a grievance regarding a violation of Texas Education Code ยง 51.9315 may report it via the University Compliance and Ethics hotline by calling 1-888-228-7707.
Center for Students in Recovery
The Center for Students in Recovery provides a community where students can find safety and support in order to thrive and have the best college experience possible while living in recovery. The Center helps students with substance use disorders or unwanted behaviors, those affected by addiction, or individuals questioning or exploring the impact of potentially addictive behavior on his or her life.
For more information, contact the Center for Students in Recovery in person in the SSB, suite 4.500, Monday-Friday from 8 a.m.-5:00 p.m. or via telephone: 972-883-7320, email: recovery@utdallas.edu, or on the web at recovery.utdallas.edu.
Comet Card
The Comet Card is the official university identification card for all students, faculty, and staff. The Card allows access to campus facilities and services, including building access and meal plans, if applicable. It also offers an optional campus account, Comet Cash, for on-campus and some off-campus purchases. Cards are issued through the Comet Card Office located in the Student Services Addition Building, 12.324. At the Comet Card Office, you can also purchase postage stamps and discount tickets to movies, museums, and other local DFW attractions. For more information call 972-883-2495 or go to cometcard.utdallas.edu.
Comet Cents
The Comet Cents Money Management Center provides free education to currently enrolled students on personal financial topics such as saving/budgeting, credit management, student loans, identity theft and financial responsibilities after college.
Comet Cupboard
The Comet Cupboard is a UT Dallas food pantry initiative dedicated to helping students in need. Its primary mission is to provide necessary food and personal care items to members of the UT Dallas community, but its impact reaches much further. The Comet Cupboard acts as a service learning component of the undergraduate academic experience and strives to cultivate a campus culture where the community is valued above individualism. The Comet Cupboard is located in MC 1.604, in the basement of the McDermott Library.
Comet Families
The Comet Families program exists to engage family members of UT Dallas students as partners in the educational and personal development of their student. Through communication, support, and involvement in campus programs, our office aims to develop lasting relationships between family members and the UT Dallas community. For more information call 972-883-6151 or go to family.utdallas.edu.
Comet Spirit Programs
Comet Spirit Programs is comprised of the UT Dallas Cheerleaders, Power Dancers, and Temoc. Temoc is the official mascot of UT Dallas and works with all spirit groups to build school spirit, promote community and cheer the Comets on to victory (spirit.utdallas.edu).
Community Standards and Conduct
The Office of Community Standards and Conduct encourages student learning, growth, and development by promoting awareness of the University's expectations of behavior, holding students accountable for violations of these expectations, and developing educational sanctions designed to address the consequences of student decisions. More information can be found at conduct.utdallas.edu or by calling 972-883-6391.
Computer Facilities
The Office of Information Technology provides computing facilities for student, faculty, and staff use in instruction and research. General access computer labs are located on the first floors of the Founders Building and the McDermott Library Building. The labs provide a modern, networked computing environment with Windows-based and Macintosh computers, scanners, and more.
Dedicated systems are also available to support such functions as campus information services, programming, research-related activities, and computationally intensive applications. A sophisticated campus-wide network permits offices and laboratories direct access to extensive computing resources both on- and off-campus. The University maintains high bandwidth connections to the commodity Internet as well as appropriate research and education networks, such as Internet 2.
Remote administrative services are provided through the Galaxy portal (galaxy.utdallas.edu), and remote access to the campus network and computing resources is provided through VPN (Virtual Private Networking) services. The University provides wireless LAN access to the campus community across most of the institution. Currently enrolled UT Dallas students and employed faculty and staff may utilize the campus network using devices with the appropriate wireless network interface. Guest wireless access is also provided on request. The latest information regarding computing services can be found at the Information Technology website at oit.utdallas.edu.
Many of the schools, programs, and research centers operate their own computing facilities that are available to students as appropriate.
CourseBook Tool
CourseBook is a tool to search for and obtain information related to course scheduling, course descriptions, and course location. CourseBook also contains course syllabi (syllabus), textbook information, course evaluations, and instructor curriculum vitae within one web portal. Go to coursebook.utdallas.edu.
Dean of Students
The Dean of Students provides leadership in the development, overall management, and supervision of student organizations and activities and serves as an information/referral source for students needing assistance in any situation. The Dean of Students Office is in the Student Services Building, 4.400, and can be contacted at 972-883-6391 or on the web at deanofstudents.utdallas.edu.
Distance Education
Education opportunities at the University include courses and entire programs taught online via the Internet. UT Dallas currently offers courses in a number of areas from across the campus, including courses in teacher education and the natural sciences. Furthermore, distance learning opportunities at The University of Texas at Dallas now utilize e-learning technologies to provide students the opportunity to engage in coursework from remote locations and without the time constraints of the traditional face-to-face classes.
Blended (or hybrid) courses that utilize both on- and off-campus presentation, providing students an opportunity to maximize their learning by collaborative learning experiences are also available. UT Dallas also works with a number of partner institutions to provide students additional learning opportunities through exchange programs and other collaborative programs both nationally and internationally.
More information about specific distance learning programs or courses at The University of Texas at Dallas and registration procedures can be found in the Class Schedule or on the distance learning website
Financial Literacy Training
In accordance with Texas Education Code, Section 51.305, the University provides students information and resources to acquire financial literacy skills through a series of lectures and/or online courses. By accessing these resources at the Comet Cents Financial Success Center website and meeting with peer financial coaches, students learn how to budget, to build and maintain credit, and to develop skills in managing their personal finances, including health care and other benefits, investing for the future, loans and repayments, retirement planning, saving accounts, and taxes.
First-Generation Student Programs
The Office of Undergraduate Education collaborates with multiple campus departments to offer centralized, comprehensive programming for first-generation students whose parents/guardians did not complete a bachelor's degree in the United States. First-Generation Student Programs strives to support first-generation student success through awareness campaigns and programming designed to enhance the belonging, engagement, academic success, and post-graduation outcomes of first-generation students. Programming includes streamed and recorded presentations on a variety of topics, information sessions, service and social events, and opportunities for students to meet faculty, staff, alumni, and community supporters who are members of the First-Generation Student Support Network. In addition, first-generation students can engage with the Office of Undergraduate Education and other first-generation students through the First-Generation Student Programs eLearning group and the first-generation student organization. For more information, please email ugdean@utdallas.edu
Fraternity and Sorority Life
Fraternity & Sorority Life at UT Dallas is young, philanthropic, and entrepreneurial. Our chapters reflect the university in that members are vibrantly diverse, academically proud, and are actively preparing members for successful careers. The UT Dallas Fraternity and Sorority Life office seeks to promote, develop, and enhance the pillars that our community prides itself on: Belonging, Opportunity, and Personal Development. Join us and be a part of something no one else offers: The opportunity to invent tradition daily. Encourage your Comet to follow Fraternity & Sorority Life on Social Media  @utdfsl to stay up-to-date and informed about upcoming activities!
For more information about our community and activities call 972-883-6523 or go to gogreek.utdallas.edu.
Freshman Mentor Program
The mission of the Freshman Mentor Program is to increase academic engagement, involvement in the campus community, and Comet spirit while assisting freshmen with the transition to college life. In the Freshman Mentor Program, incoming freshman are provided a personal mentor that will meet with them regularly during their first two semesters at UT Dallas.
The Galerstein Gender Center
The Galerstein Gender Center is a campus resource that fosters a safe and inclusive environment by advocating for gender equity and diversity through leadership development, education, programs, and services. 
Advocate for gender equity and inclusive campus policies and practices 
Educate the campus and broader community on gender and LGBT+-related topics
Empower women and LGBT+ communities with confidence and skills for success 
Connect students, staff, faculty and community to resources, mentors, scholarships, internships and volunteer opportunities 
Honor and celebrate national days of recognition and individuals who are making an impact in the lives of girls, women and LGBT+ communities
For more information, please contact the GGC at 972-883-6555, located in SSB 4.300.
Graduation Help Desk
The Graduation Help Desk is a one-stop resource within the Office of Undergraduate Education designed to help undergraduates overcome obstacles to a timely graduation. Specifically, the Graduation Help Desk supports faculty, staff, and students by developing solutions to complex academic and non-academic issues that could adversely impact persistence or completion and referring individuals to campus resources. Equipped to promote student success from entry to completion, the Graduation Help Desk can support undergraduate students at any point in their academic career.
Intercollegiate Athletics
UT Dallas is a member of the NCAA Division III American Southwest Conference. The UT Dallas athletic program includes 17 sports - eight men's (baseball, basketball, cross country, golf, soccer indoor and outdoor track and field and tennis) and nine women's sports (basketball, cross country, golf, soccer, softball, tennis indoor and outdoor track and field and volleyball). Both undergraduate and graduate students are able to participate if they have NCAA eligibility remaining. Athletics is the home of the UT Dallas Esports team - a co-ed program featuring League of Legends, Overwatch, Super Smash Brothers and Rocket League. Esports arena is located inside the Student Union. Athletic Administrative offices are located in the Activity Center. For additional information call 972-883-4490 or go to utdcomets.com.
International Resources
International Center
The UT Dallas International Center (IC) provides programs and services for students interested in studying abroad, international students enrolling at UT Dallas, and students interested in other international activities.  The International Center is located in the Student Services Building, SSB 3.400.  More information is available online at ic.utdallas.edu.
Education Abroad
Education Abroad (EA). UT Dallas offers many international opportunities for both graduate and undergraduate students, including exchange programs, faculty-led programs, internships, independent studies, and affiliated partner study abroad programs. The Education Abroad office provides information on available opportunities, university policies governing program options, eligibility requirements, basic preparation, institutional protocol, education abroad fees, and the International Education Fund Scholarship. Information is available through special events, group meetings, individual appointments, reference materials, and at the Education Abroad website, ic.utdallas.edu/ea
Students may apply for the UT Dallas International Education Fund (IEF) Scholarship to request financial support for education abroad programs. Information about the IEF Scholarship, including eligibility requirements and deadlines, is available at the Education Abroad website (ic.utdallas.edu/ea/iefs). Students may consult with the Office of Financial Aid to determine how participation in education abroad impacts existing financial aid offerings.
International Risk and Safety monitors and facilitates traveler compliance with international travel requirements, which form the institutional safety net for travelers going abroad on behalf of the University; provides resources, information, and support on the international travel insurance program for faculty, staff, and students on University international travel; provides risk and safety training, and related support and resources; provides 24/7 crisis response for UT Dallas travelers abroad, review of risk mitigation plans, and research and analysis on locations considered High Risk Regions. More information can be found at ic.utdallas.edu/rs or by e-mailing IRSO@utdallas.edu.
Intercultural Programs
Intercultural Programs (ICP) offers transitional programs for international students and promotes intercultural competency development through high-quality, innovative, educational, and collaborative programming. Some of Intercultural Programs' largest events include International Week, International Student Orientation, Cultural Workshops, and iFriend, a matching program between American and international students.
International Student Services Office
The International Student Services Office (ISSO) serves as a primary resource to the UT Dallas international student community by providing student immigration services (prospective, current, and graduated students), federal SEVIS reporting, student immigration advising, F and J immigration processing, and ancillary immigration programs and services. See ic.utdallas.edu/isso.  Specific legal advice may be sought through immigration attorney services provided by the Student Government. Further information can be found by contacting Student Government.
International Student Definitions and Fees
All international students enrolling in UT Dallas courses are required to pay the International Student Special Services Fee for the ongoing support of non-immigrant students enrolled at UT Dallas. Immigrant categories that are exempt include: U.S. citizen; Permanent Resident (PR card required); Conditional Resident; Temporary Protected Status; Refugee; Asylee; Public Interest Parolee; Temporary Residence-Amnesty; People with no documented immigration status.
Any F-1 student participating in Optional or Curricular Practical Training programs is required to pay the Practical Training Maintenance of Status Fee at the point of each Practical Training application. This fee funds the additional administrative and clerical expenses required to review records and process the forms required by the United States Citizenship and Immigration Service to certify international students for placement in curricular or optional practical training assignments.
All F-1 and J-1 students enrolling in UT Dallas courses for the first time are charged the International Orientation fee to support the administrative cost of running the mandatory international orientation program.
Any student whose immigration status officially changes is required to submit proof of that change to the UT Dallas Registrar's Office and International Student Services Office (ISSO). If the status changes to an exempt classification, the student will not, subsequently, be assessed the International Student Special Services Fee. If the appropriate documentation is submitted prior to Census Day of a semester, the fee for that semester will be refunded based on the tuition refund schedule as published in the UT Dallas Academic Calendar.
Registration Requirements
Prior to enrollment, international students are required to meet the Tuberculosis test and Meningitis vaccine requirements (see Student Health Center). All F-1 and J-1 students must attend an International Student Orientation prior to registering in UT Dallas courses. 
Living Learning Communities
Living Learning Communities allow groups of students who share common academic objectives, goals, and interests to develop a support network with other students, peer advisors, and faculty/staff members. Faculty and staff advisors facilitate distinctive academic and social opportunities that help students extend their learning beyond the classroom. For more information call 972-883-7430 or go to livinglearning.utdallas.edu.
Military and Veteran Center
The UT Dallas Military and Veteran Center (MVC) provides comprehensive support for military-affiliated students, from admission through graduation, to facilitate achievement of academic and career goals. Military-affiliated students include veterans, current military service members (Active/Guard/Reserve), military spouses and dependents, and ROTC cadets. The space includes an open study area, two study rooms, computing stations, lounge, microwave, and coffee. The MVC is located in the Student Services Building Addition (SSA) in suite 14.250 and is open Monday to Friday from 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. For more information, call 972-883-4913, email veterans@utdallas.edu, or go to veterans.utdallas.edu.
Multicultural Center
The Multicultural Center (MC) provides cultural programs, support services, resources and cultural education programs. The MC is a place for students, faculty and staff to gather and relax. The MC has a comfortable lounge area with a television, videos, computer lab, work station, and a meeting room. Traditional events hosted by the MC are Hispanic Heritage Month, Black History Month, MLK Jr. Breakfast, Asian-American Heritage Celebration, Native American Heritage program, and the Diversity Dinner Dialogues. The MC is home to the Multicultural Peer Advocates (MPA's). The MPA's are student peer advocates that are available for personal, social or academic assistance.
Office hours are Monday through Thursday 8:30 a.m. - 6:00 p.m., Friday 8:30 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. Location: Student Services Building. Email: Multicultural Center. Telephone: 972-883-6390. Website: multicultural.utdallas.edu. Director: Arthur Gregg.
Professional Preparation
Students at the University who wish to prepare for a career in teaching, law, medicine, or a paramedical field should make every effort to ensure that their coursework at the upper division is in keeping with particular requirements of that chosen profession.
Health Related Professions
Healthcare professional programs do not state a preference about an undergraduate major field, thus permitting students to choose degree programs that correspond to their special abilities and interests. Students interested in the health professions may choose any major as long as they meet the minimum requirements stated by the professional school in question. Students who wish to continue their education in any professional program of study should contact the Health Professions Advising Center (HPAC) during their first semester at UT Dallas. The advisors may be reached by calling 972-883-6767 or by visiting their office at FO 2.210. More information may be found on their website at oue.utdallas.edu/pre-health.
Law Professions
Law school admissions committees seek applicants from a variety of educational backgrounds, therefore students should choose degree programs that correspond to their special abilities and interests. Extra-curricular opportunities including internships, Moot Court, Mock Trial, Mediation, and the Innocence Project Workshop are available for students, regardless of their major. Students interested in a career in law should contact the Pre-Law Advising Center (PLAC) in the Office of Undergraduate Education, FO 2.202, or by calling 972-883-6712. The PLAC website is located at oue.utdallas.edu/pre-law.
Teacher Certification
Students who wish to gain certification to teach in Texas schools may do so at UT Dallas through one of its two separate teacher preparation programs - the Teacher Development Center in the School of Interdisciplinary Studies (972-883-2730) and UTeach Dallas in the School of Natural Sciences and Mathematics (972-883-2496). Students must first be admitted individually to the academic program of their choice. They must also seek admission through either the Teacher Development Center or UTeach Dallas as early as possible. The Teacher Certification website is located at teach.utdallas.edu; the UTeach website is at uteach.utdallas.edu.
Professional education courses, including student teaching, of at least 18 semester credit hours are prescribed to meet state certification regulations. Certification requirements may increase the number of semester credit hours normally required for graduation. Careful planning and utilization of electives for fulfillment of professional requirements may allow the student to avoid such an increase.
The Teacher Development Center supports all of the following certifications while UTeach Dallas supports only the secondary mathematics and science certifications (4-8 and 7-12). Teaching fields in which certification for Grades 7-12 may be earned are English Language Arts and Reading, Social Studies, Computer Science, History, Life Sciences, Physical Science, Science, Chemistry, and Mathematics. Teaching fields in which certification for Grades 4-8 may be earned are Science, Mathematics, Social Studies, English Language Arts and Reading, and Generalist 4-8. The Generalist Certificate is the only teaching field available at UT Dallas for Early Childhood (EC)-6 certification.
All students interested in Teacher Certification should consult the section on Teacher Education Certification Programs in the catalog, as well as the appropriate subject area.
Residential Life
UT Dallas views residential life as an integral part of the education process. The Residential Life office seeks to provide structure, support, and a sense of community that will complement your classroom experience through:

Programs and events
On-site peer advisors and professional staff
Student organizations, such as Residential Housing Association and National Residence Hall Honorary
24-hour support and assistance
Leadership opportunities
Community involvement
Roommate mediation

For more information call 972-883-7430 or go to reslife.utdallas.edu. 
Road Warriors
The Road Warriors program is committed to enriching the collegiate experience of commuter students at UT Dallas. We serve the commuter student population through information, resources and social programs. For more information call 972-883-6171 or go to roadwarriors.utdallas.edu.
ROTC Programs
Students at The University of Texas at Dallas may participate in the Air Force ROTC program at The University of North Texas, or in the Army ROTC program at The University of Texas at Arlington.
Students wanting to register for ROTC classes should contact the appropriate ROTC office listed below. Once approved for classes the ROTC office will email the UT Dallas Registrar's Office with the classes the student is approved to take. The UT Dallas Registrar's Office will then email the student to let them know the approval has been received and that they can then go online to their student center and register for the classes. Payment for the classes is through the UT Dallas Bursar Office by the published payment deadlines.
The ROTC courses are used as elective courses. Successful completion of degree requirements and the respective ROTC program can lead to a commission as a Second Lieutenant in the United States Air Force or the United States Army.
For further information and application procedures, contact:
AIR FORCE ROTC
Detachment 835
The University of North Texas1155 Union Circle #305400Denton, Texas 76203
Telephone: 940-369-7116
Email: det835@unt.edu
or 
ARMY ROTC
Dept. of Military ScienceATTN: AdmissionsP.O. Box 19005600 S. West StreetArlington, Texas 76019-0005
Telephone: 817-272-3256
Email: armyrotc@uta.edu
Student AccessAbility
Student AccessAbility ensures that qualified students with documented disabilities have an equal opportunity to participate in educational, recreational, and social activities at UT Dallas. Students with disabilities are urged to contact Student AccessAbility as soon as they are admitted to the University. Student AccessAbility is located in the Administration Building 2.224, and can be contacted at 972-883-2098 or on the web at studentaccess.utdallas.edu.
Student Activities
Student Union and Activities Advisory Board (SUAAB) is a group of student leaders dedicated to programming diverse social and educational events to enhance the student experience. Events coordinated by SUAAB include annual Homecoming entertainment, Comet Con, Springapalooza, comedians, concerts, and more. SUAAB is located in the SSA in suite 13.451, and can be contacted at 972-883-6438 or on the web at suaab.utdallas.edu.
Meteor Theater is a student-run movie program that screens popular movies on campus. Meteor Theater also screens films with lectures that reflect hot topics in today's world through its Cinematheque program. Meteor Theater host the annual Cosmic Film Festival to encourage an interest and appreciation of student-created, original movies and short films. Meteor Theater is located in the SSA in suite 13.451, and can be contacted at 972-883-6215 or on the web at meteortheater.utdallas.edu.
Student Affairs
The Division of Student Affairs, under the direction of the Vice President for Student Affairs, offers a variety of student services and programs that are designed to promote student engagement and involvement. For more information go to studentaffairs.utdallas.edu.
Student Counseling Center
The Student Counseling Center is staffed by licensed psychologists, counselors, social workers, and psychiatrists who are available to provide mental health services to our students. Services include individual counseling, couple counseling, group counseling, specialized services (e.g., sexual assault support; gender affirming treatment), crisis intervention, and targeted workshops/programs relevant to student needs (e.g. coping with anxiety). The SCC also provides identity-based support services for students, particularly those who hold marginalized identities. In addition, a psychiatric team provides psychiatric evaluations and medication management for UTD students. The Student Counseling center utilizes a short-term, brief therapy model, and services are goal-focused and targeted towards helping students increase overall functioning. Comet Chat is another service of the SCC and offers brief consultations with a counselor to find out more about SCC services and target the need for more immediate support and recommendations. All services focus on increasing resources and strategies to cope with student concerns. The SCC is dedicated to being inclusive and providing equitable and affirming care.
All counseling services and records are held confidential to the extent permitted by law and are governed by the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act, the Texas Open Records Act, and Article 5561(h), Vernon's Annotated Texas Civil Statutes. The Student Counseling Center is located in the Student Services Building, SSB 4.600. For more information call 972-883-2575 or go to counseling.utdallas.edu.
Student Exchange Program - UT System
The UT System Student Exchange program is designed to allow upper-division students enrolled in an institution of the UT System to take courses or engage in research at another institution within the System during a regular semester or summer session.
A UT Dallas student in good standing who has completed at least 60 semester credit hours is eligible to participate in the exchange program. Approval by the student's Associate Dean of Undergraduate Education is also required. Visiting students register and pay tuition and required fees at their home institutions and are given normal privileges associated with available student services at the exchange institution. Visiting students are subject to the rules and regulations of both institutions.
Each UT System institution has designated an individual to coordinate and approve undergraduate student exchanges. Interested UT Dallas students should contact the Office of the Dean of Undergraduate Education for additional information: call 972-883-6706 or email the Office of the Dean of Undergraduate Education.
Students at other UT System schools wishing to take courses at The University of Texas at Dallas under this exchange program should contact and work through the office designated by their home institution.
Student Government
Student Government is the official representative body and voice of UT Dallas students. Students have the opportunity to participate through serving on committees, running for office, or voting in elections. Student Government provides many free services for students, including attorney services and the Comet Discount Program. Further information may be obtained from the Student Government Offices in the Student Union (SU Suite 2.4), by calling 972-883-2284, or by going to sg.utdallas.edu.
Student Health Center
The Student Health Center offers routine medical services and treatment to all currently enrolled students who have paid the medical services fee and are attending classes. Services include physicals, diagnosis and treatment of acute illnesses and injuries, general medical problems, gynecological problems, treatment of stabilized chronic illnesses, allergy injections, limited immunizations, x-rays, and ultrasound. Care providers include Physician Assistants, Nurse Practitioners and a Staff Physician. While there is no out-of-pocket cost to students for most services, there are charges for laboratory services, medications, and specific procedures provided to individual students. Charges incurred by students who are covered by the UT Student Health Insurance Plan are billed directly to the insurance company. Students not covered by this plan must pay for services at the time they are provided. The Student Health Center also provides information on the prevention and transmission of HIV infection and AIDS, and offers related testing and education programs. Students are also encouraged to be current on all recommended immunizations.
All services or treatment obtained from medical facilities other than the Student Health Center are the responsibility of the individual student. The staff at the Student Health Center can make referrals to off-campus medical providers as appropriate.
All medical services and records of the UT Dallas Student Health Center are held confidential to the extent permitted by law and are governed by the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act, the Texas Open Records Act, and Article 5561(h), Vernon's Annotated Texas Civil Statutes. The Student Health Center is located in the Student Services Building, SSB 4.700. Call 972-883-2747 for more information or go to studenthealthcenter.utdallas.edu.
Bacterial Meningitis Vaccination Requirement
Per State legislation effective January 1, 2012, all entering Texas college students must receive a vaccination or booster (if the vaccination is five years old) against bacterial meningitis before enrollment in accordance with Texas Education Code, Section 51.9192.
The vaccine or booster is required for entering students at Texas public and private colleges, living both on- and off-campus.

An entering student is a new student or a student who has had a break of enrollment for one or more fall or spring semesters. Summer semester is not included as a break in enrollment.
Transfer students are considered entering students. Transfer students may request an official memo stating proof of vaccination (within the last five years) from their previous institution and submit with the vaccination requirement form.
Students who are enrolled only in online courses are exempt if they supply an online exemption form.
Entering students 22 years of age or older are exempt.

The student, or parent or guardian of the student, must provide a meningococcal meningitis vaccine requirement form with an official immunization record or other required documentation listed on the form, showing the student has received the bacterial meningitis vaccination or booster during the five-year period prior to enrollment, and not less than 10 days before the first day of classes.
Students opting to decline the vaccination for bacterial meningitis for reasons of conscience, including religious belief, should request an affidavit through the Texas Department of State Health Services.
Entering students will be unable to register until the paperwork is received and reviewed. The Office of the Registrar sends electronic notifications to students about the vaccination or booster requirement until the paperwork is received.
Mail proof of bacterial meningitis vaccination and form to the following address:
Office of the Registrar, SSB 13  The University of Texas at Dallas  800 West Campbell Road  Richardson, TX 75080-3021  OR  Email bacterial meningitis vaccination documentation to the Office of the Registrar.
Questions concerning the bacterial meningitis requirement and forms should be directed to the Office of the Registrar, 972-883-2342 or go to registrar.utdallas.edu.
Hepatitis B Vaccination Requirement
A Hepatitis B vaccination is required for students enrolled in a course of study that involves potential exposure to human or animal blood or bodily fluids in accordance with Texas Education Code, Section 51.933.
Mandatory Tuberculosis Screening for International Students

Tuberculosis (TB) screening is required for all persons born outside the United States, regardless of the status of their application. (Note: Being granted the resident tuition rate does NOT exempt an international student from this requirement.)
Screening for TB must be administered, regardless of prior BCG vaccination, no more than (6) months prior to the first day of class.
The only acceptable TB screening options are the Interferon Gamma Release Assay (IGRA) blood test and T-Spot. A TB skin test will NOT be accepted.
The T-Spot or IGRA blood test must be administered and interpreted in the United States by a licensed medical provider.
International students who do not complete a TB screening will NOT be allowed to register for classes.
The T-Spot test is available through the on-campus Student Health Center at a reasonable cost.
TB holds will be released by 8:00 a.m. the following day after the T-Spot (TB screening) test has been administered. At this time students will be able to register for classes. Results of the T-Spot test will be available four business days after the test is administered. If a T-Spot result is positive, the student will be contacted by the Student Health Center. A hold will be placed on the student's account until a follow-up visit is conducted with the Student Health Center to administer additional required testing/screenings. During this time, students will not be permitted to attend classes. Failure to comply may result in disciplinary action. This hold may prevent students from registering for future classes, receiving grades, and possibly receiving a degree.

Appropriate documentation secured from a U.S. licensed medical provider may be sent to the following address:
Student Health Center, SSB 43  The University of Texas at Dallas  800 West Campbell Road  Richardson, TX 75080-3021
See the UT Dallas Student Health Center website for more detailed information.
Recommended Immunizations
The following vaccines are recommended but not required:

Hepatitis A and B
Human Papillomavirus (HPV)
Influenza (flu)
Measles, mumps, rubella (MMR) - 2 doses (required for international students)
Tetanus, diphtheria, pertussis (Tdap)
Varicella (chicken pox)

For more information, please visit studenthealthcenter.utdallas.edu/immunizations.
Student Health Insurance
The University of Texas at Dallas Student Health Insurance Office, under the direction of the Student Health Center, provides unique and confidential health insurance advising services for UT Dallas students. Health insurance is available to all students at UT Dallas and is required of all international students holding F1, F2, J1, or J2 non-immigrant visas. International students holding F1, F2, J1, or J2 visas are automatically assessed the Student Health Insurance (SHI) fee at the time of registration for classes. International students are responsible to pay the fee unless they apply for and are granted an insurance waiver based on documentation of other comparable insurance coverage. Contact the Student Health Insurance Office for more information at 972-883-2747 or on the web at studenthealthcenter.utdallas.edu/insurance.
Student Leadership Programs
Student Leadership Programs, offered through the Student Development Office, help students to develop and enhance competence and self-knowledge as it pertains to leadership in a global society. Students have the opportunity to participate in a certificate program, workshops, webinars, and retreats and conferences. For more information call 972-883-2242 or go to www.utdallas.edu/research/about/leadership.
Student Media
The award-winning student newspaper of UT Dallas, The Mercury, publishes biweekly on Mondays throughout the school year. The newspaper offers paid positions for writers, editors, graphic designers, and photographers.
Radio UTD, the student-run Internet radio station, features an eclectic and freeform mix of music and original programming including news and talk shows. College Music Journal has recognized Radio UTD as one of the best Internet radio stations in the United States.
AMP, a student opinion magazine that focuses on student life, global politics, arts, events, and social commentary, publishes once per month during the fall and spring semesters.
UTD TV, a web-based television station provides a medium for broadcasting news, entertainment shows, and other content produced by students.
Student Ombuds Office 
The Student Ombuds Office is a safe, welcoming and confidential space for students who wish to discuss university-related concerns or issues. The office provides support to students who encounter challenges and conflicts, while empowering students with strategies, options and tools to help them identify their own course of resolution.   To schedule a meeting, send an email to studentombuds@utdallas.edu, call 972-883-6968 or visit the office, located in Room 14.120 of the Student Services Addition building. More information may be found at ombuds.utdallas.edu.
Student Organization Center
The Student Organization Center (SOC) helps UT Dallas students become more connected to campus life. SOC provides programming and services for registered student organizations and assists students in creating new organizations. Visit us in the Student Union (SU 2.416) or go to soc.utdallas.edu.
Student Organizations
Registered student organizations provide the major means by which students can connect to campus life while developing friendships, interests, talents, and leadership skills. There are over 300 student organizations at UT Dallas that cater to a variety of interests, such as academic and honor groups, service clubs, religious groups, ethnic groups, and special interest groups. Detailed information on the groups and guidelines for forming new organizations is available in the Student Organization Center (Student Union, 2.416). For additional information call 972-883-6551 or go to soc.utdallas.edu.
Student Outreach and Academic Retention (SOAR)
In addition to School based advising, the Student Outreach and Academic Retention (SOAR) office is dedicated to providing academic advising to students who are at-risk for Academic Suspension and students who have not met the Academic Excellence Scholarship (AES) requirements. Students not in good academic standing or have not met their AES scholarship requirements are required to meet with a SOAR advisor and follow a prescribed advising plan. The individualized plan will be designed to help each student improve their academic standing by addressing their specific needs including but not limited to study skills, time management skills, personal issues, and appropriate campus office referrals. SOAR office advising is available to all students though not required of students in good standing.
Student Success Center
The Student Success Center offers academic support to currently enrolled undergraduate students. The SSC assists students in meeting their academic goals across a wide variety of subject areas including writing, communication, math, science, and other difficult courses. Peer Leaders tutor and mentor students via review sessions, individual appointments, small group learning, and workshops.
Peer Tutoring offers assistance for various STEM courses through drop-in tutoring, reviews, and appointments.  
The Writing Center provides constructive feedback and writing support for undergraduate students via individual appointments and workshops.
The Peer-Led Team Learning (PLTL) offers weekly cohort-style sessions designed to encourage a collaborative study environment for math, chemistry, and physics courses. Registration is required.
Supplemental Instruction (SI) provides collaborative and interactive group study sessions for students enrolled in various courses.
The CommLab provides practical feedback and resources for improving oral presentation through one-on-one and group appointments.
Academic Success Coaching offers one-on-one support and workshops in time management, effective study strategies, and goal setting.
The Institute for Peer Education (formerly Institute for Peer Mentoring) provides a cohesive curriculum to help improve UTD mentoring programs. Level 1 and Level 2 certifications are offered for mentors and tutors.
The Student Success Center's main office is located in the McDermott Library Building and can be contacted by calling 972-883-6707 or by sending an email to the Center.
Student Technology Initiative
The Student Technology Initiative requires all freshman students at The University of Texas at Dallas to possess a laptop that meets or exceeds the University's minimum hardware specifications. The goal of this program is to ensure that all students have access to the technology needed to be successful in their course of study. No student will be denied admission to UT Dallas or registration in a course based on an inability to afford a laptop. For more information on the program and financial options, please visit oit.utdallas.edu/technologyinitiative.
Student Transition Programs
Student Transition Programs welcomes all new undergraduate students and their families to the University! We provide programming, services and involvement opportunities specific to first-year students, transfer students, sophomores, juniors and seniors. Through a welcoming and inclusive atmosphere, we provide the framework for students to learn and develop as they adjust to the expectations, standards, and academic rigors of the University while fostering pride in the UT Dallas community. Student Transition Programs is located in the Student Services Addition, 14.431, and can be contacted at 972-883-6171 or on the web at transition.utdallas.edu.
Student Union
The Student Union is a welcomed space on campus for all students, faculty, and staff to visit and promotes activities such as getting a bite to eat, meeting for coffee, having fun with friends, or conducting important meetings and events. Open seven days a week, it includes a TV lounge, study lounges, pool tables, ping-pong tables, and several dining options such as MARKET, Firehouse Subs, Halal Shack, Smoothie King, Chick-Fil-A, Panda Express, and a 3,000 square foot full service Starbucks. The Student Union Mall, Plinth, and the Student Union Green are outside locations that provide ample space to enjoy beautiful weather and participate in various student activities.
The Student Services Building, connected to the Student Union, is a 65,000 square foot facility that houses departments such as the Multicultural Center, Enrollment Services, The International Center, Intercultural Programs, Career Center, Student Health Center, Student Counseling Center, Center for Students in Recovery, Dean of Students Office, and The Galerstein Gender Center. Also open seven days a week, the building provides common areas for studying and one meeting room that can be reserved for formal functions.
The Student Services Addition, connected to the Student Services Building, is a 70,000 square foot facility that houses Student Affairs departments such as the Comet Card Office, the Vice President of Student Affairs, New Student Programs, Student Volunteerism, the Student Wellness Center, and the Military and Veteran Center. Also open seven days a week, the building includes six meeting rooms and ample common area space that are perfect for formal and informal meetings, studying, and relaxing. Students are welcomed to try their skill and compete against friends on a massive, nine screen video gaming wall. A 520-seat theater provides a superior experience to watch movies, comedians, concerts, lectures, and important student-centered events.
Student Volunteerism
The Office of Student Volunteerism offers students a variety of opportunities to lend their time and talents in service to the communities of UT Dallas, North Central Texas, and beyond. Programs include Alternative Spring Break, Earth Week, Freshmen Engaged in Service Together, National Hunger and Homelessness Awareness Week, National Volunteer Week, OSV Student Leadership Program, UT Dallas Community Garden, Viva Volunteer, Volunteer Expo, monthly opportunities, recurring volunteer events, special projects, environmental initiatives, and year-round donation drives. The Office of Student Volunteerism is located in the SSA in suite 14.431T and can be contacted at 972-883-6131 or on the web at volunteer.utdallas.edu.
Student Wellness Center
The Student Wellness Center assists and encourages students to adopt responsible behaviors related to various health topics through evidence-based educational programs/events, presentations, individual consultations and social media. Programs include alcohol and other drug education, stress management, nutrition, sexual assault prevention, sexual responsibility, suicide prevention, tobacco education, bystander intervention and public health initiatives. The Student Wellness Center has a registered dietitian on staff to aid students in healthy meal planning and also coping with eating disorders. The Student Wellness Center is located in the Student Services Addition, SSA 14.270 and can be contacted at 972-883-4275 and studentwellness@utdallas.edu or on the web at studentwellness.utdallas.edu.
Textbooks
The University Bookstore stocks all required textbooks and software. Textbook information for specific courses is available within the CourseBook web portal at coursebook.utdallas.edu. Textbook information includes International Standard Book Number (ISBN) and retail price information; data is collected from the campus bookstore on a regular basis. For additional assistance, click on the help tab within coursebook.utdallas.edu.
The University of Texas at Dallas advises students that they are not under any obligation to purchase a textbook from a university-affiliated bookstore. The same textbook may also be available from an independent retailer, including an online retailer. (Texas Education Code 51.9705; 19 TAC 4.215)
Transfer Mentor Program
The mission of the Transfer Mentor Program is to cultivate a stronger connection to UT Dallas for incoming transfer students by providing them a personal mentor to meet with them regularly during their first year at UT Dallas. Mentors in the program are successful UT Dallas transfer students who provide concentrated support to address the specific needs and challenges of today's transfer student. Transfer students who participate in the program benefit heavily from having a personal connection with someone on campus who can provide extra academic and social guidance. For more information, please email transfermentor@utdallas.edu.
Transfer Student Services
Transfer Student Servicesprovides support to new and returning transfer students to ensure their successful transition into UT Dallas. Programs include Transfer Orientation in Spring, Summer, and Fall, Transfer Coffee and Conversations, the Transfer Student Leadership Program, and more. Transfer Student Services also supports the Tau Sigma National Honor Society for Transfer Students. Transfer Student Services is located in the Student Services Addition, 14.431, and can be contacted at 972-883-6170 or on the web at transferservices.utdallas.edu.
University Career Center
The University Career Center offers a full range of services to help students determine their future goals and design their career paths. Career Consultants are available to assist students from all majors. Services include career advising and interest assessments, resume and job search document critiques, mock interviews, job search assistance, and more. In-depth information is available on the University Career Center's website.
Students can obtain assistance with searching for and applying for internships as well as information about options for academic credit based on their major. A variety of seminars on topics such as resume and cover letter writing, interviewing, networking, and conducting an effective job search are offered on a regular basis. Part-time jobs, full-time jobs, internship opportunities, volunteer positions, on-campus interview schedules, and career events are posted through Handshake, an online career management platform. All students have a Handshake account and just need to log in and complete their profile to become active. Students upload their resume into the system in order to apply for qualified positions or to make it available for employer referrals.
Recruiters from across the country and various industries; business, government, education, and non-profit and public service agencies work directly with the University Career Center to determine the best way to connect with students. Potential employers recruit students and alumni regularly through career expos, on-campus interviews, networking events, and information sessions and many other targeted events throughout the year which can all be found on Handshake.
For more information, contact the University Career Center in the Student Services Building room 3.300, telephone: 972-883-2943, web: career.utdallas.edu, email: University Career Center.
University Housing Information
University Housing offers several on-campus living options for UT Dallas students who desire to live within walking distance to academic buildings, activity centers, dining options, and the library. Housing options include residence halls in University Commons and apartments in University Village and Canyon Creek Heights.
University Commons residence halls have suite-style rooms that accommodate three students. Each suite is furnished and has three private bedrooms, a shared bathroom area, and a shared living area. In accordance with University policy, the residence halls are available to first-year students, and all first-year students who choose to live on campus are required to live in University Commons residence halls. Students may apply to live in a Living Learning Community (LLC). Please refer to the Living Learning Communities and Residential Life sections of this guide for additional information.
University Village and Canyon Creek Heights apartments offer several floor plans for non-first year students. All units include a refrigerator, dishwasher, and electric range/oven. Select units have a clothes washer and dryer. University Village Apartments are unfurnished. Canyon Creek Heights apartments are furnished with a bed, desk, desk chair, dresser, barstools, sofa, and coffee table.
Additional University Housing amenities include internet in every unit, swimming pools, sport courts, common areas for studying and recreation, package holding locations, on-site maintenance teams, and 24-hour police patrols.
UT Dallas does not currently check criminal history records for on-campus housing students. The University is entitled to obtain criminal history information that relates to a student or applicant who applies to reside in on-campus housing and will notify the individual if the information is used to deny them housing. Texas Government Code, Section 411.0945.
For more information please go to housing.utdallas.edu.
Contact Information:
University Housing OfficeResidence Hall West
Telephone: 972-883-7430
Email: Housing Office 
University Libraries
Eugene McDermott Library and the Callier Library support the research, instruction, and community service programs of the University by providing access to information in both print, electronic, media, microform, maps, and data.  
Callier Library is a satellite facility dedicated to supporting the Callier Center for Communication Disorders and the Center for Brain Health in Dallas. It specializes in materials on speech and hearing disorders.  
The Eugene McDermott Library, located on the UT Dallas campus, provides a professional team of librarians and support staff to assist the campus with learning how to use and find resources.  The building provides computer workstations, printing and scanning equipment, and reservable study spaces.  Important research collections are available in the Special Collections and Archives Department.  Collections include the Wineburgh Philatelic Research Library, the Louise B. Belsterling Collection, and the UT Dallas Archives, and the Rare Books Collection. The History of Aviation Collection Archives is located in the SPN2 building north of campus.  The Library is a U.S. federal depository and receives a variety of materials created by the government.  The Library is developing its digital collections using Treasures, a digital institutional repository which showcases the research and scholarship conducted at the University.  
If McDermott and Callier do not have requested items, library customers can utilize the Interlibrary Loan Service. This service provides students with books or articles from a network of major libraries.  
University Recreation
University Recreation provides UT Dallas students, faculty and staff with diverse recreational programs to enhance their overall educational experience. The Activity Center includes a 10,000 square foot fitness center, four racquetball courts, two squash courts, four basketball courts, two multi-purpose rooms, climbing wall and an indoor swimming pool. Outdoor spaces include two sand volleyball courts and three basketball courts. Rec Center West is located directly next to Residence Hall West and Dining Hall West. It is available to all students, faculty and staff. Rec Center West's gym courts will be reserved primarily for badminton and volleyball. The center also includes a cardio fitness space and multipurpose room for additional workout needs. University Recreation also offers students opportunities to participate in a variety of intramural and club sports, group exercise classes, outdoor excursions, and non-credit courses. For additional information call 972-883-2096 or go to urec.utdallas.edu.
UT Online Consortium
In addition to the online courses listed in the catalog, there are additional offerings that students may take through the UT Online Consortium (UTOC). The UTOC is the centralized support center for online education throughout The University of Texas System. On the website (www.utcoursesonline.org) you will find a listing of programs and courses, enrollment services, Texas Information System (TIS), academic calendars, campus contacts, course login information, and learning resources. Designated contacts at each campus are available to assist you, as are the student services support staff of the UTOC. With questions please call toll-free: 1-888-TEXAS-16 (1-888-839-2716).
Updated: 2022-01-19 12:43:56 v13.9cd146




