



Drama - UT Dallas 2013 Undergraduate Catalog - The University of Texas at Dallas































Jump to content
Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Catalog Home 
Undergraduate Catalogs 


2022 Undergraduate Catalog2021 Undergraduate Catalog2020 Undergraduate Catalog2019 Undergraduate Catalog2018 Undergraduate Catalog2017 Undergraduate Catalog2016 Undergraduate Catalog


 
Graduate Catalogs 


2022 Graduate Catalog2021 Graduate Catalog2020 Graduate Catalog2019 Graduate Catalog2018 Graduate Catalog2017 Graduate Catalog2016 Graduate Catalog









UT Dallas 2013 Undergraduate CatalogDramaDRAM 1310 (DRAM 1310) Understanding Theater (3 semester hours) Lectures, discussions, and performances designed to explore artistic, philosophical, social, historical, and psychological dimensions of the theatrical experience. Topics may include analysis of scripts, the nature of the theater compared to the other performing arts, and the nature of popular entertainments. (3-0) YDRAM 1351 (DRAM 1351) Acting 1 (3 semester hours) The purpose of this course is to provide the student with a working knowledge of the fundamentals of the actor's craft. This will include basic acting theory and technique, script analysis, exercises to develop imagination, concentration, sensory awareness, self-knowledge, trust and freedom. This class is designed to give the beginning acting student the ability to act and work individually and collaboratively on lay scripts in a workshop environment. (0-3) TDRAM 1352 (DRAM 1352) Acting 2 (3 semester hours) This course will continue the development of physical, emotional, and imaginative awareness as it applies to acting. The methods of creating character, text analysis, and performance techniques will be emphasized. Students will also be introduced to different styles of acting and improvisation. Material may focus on classic or contemporary drama or original creations and will include scene and monologue study and presentation. Prerequisite: DRAM 1351 or instructor consent required. (0-3) TDRAM 2311 Topics in Theater (3 semester hours) An introduction to specialized topics in theater. May include historical or cultural elements of theater, a genre or author, or digital aspects of theater. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 hours maximum). (3-0) RDRAM 2364 Musical Theater Workshop (3 semester hours) Training in singing, dancing, and acting for the musical stage. Includes preparation of performance from the works of 20th- and 21st-century composers. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (6 hours maximum). (0-3) RDRAM 2371 Technical Theater 1 (3 semester hours) Designed to provide an introductory overview of all aspects of technical theater, encompassing lighting, sound, set construction, props, costume procedures, and elementary construction. Practical work will reference theater history and the theoretical foundations of technical theater. Students will be required to attend weekly lectures and fulfill production lab hours. (0-3) YDRAM 2372 Improvisation (3 semester hours) Students will learn the fundamentals of spontaneous creativity through the use of critical listening and response. Exercises and games are used to help students learn to express themselves both physically and vocally. (0-3) RDRAM 2373 Languages of the Body (3 semester hours) Explores the fundamental principles and techniques of movement and/or voice systems and their relationship to diverse forms of theater, performance, media, and alternative staging. Presented in a participatory workshop setting. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (6 hours maximum). Prerequisite: DRAM 1310 or equivalent. (0-3) RDRAM 2v71 Independent Study in Drama (1-3 semester hours) Independent study under a faculty member's direction. Signature of instructor and ADU on proposed project outline required. May be repeated for credit (9 hours maximum). Prerequisite: Instructor consent required. ([1-3]-0) RDRAM 3310 Theater/Performance Ensemble (3 semester hours) This course is for people who are acting, producing or managing a production. Time will be reserved for rehearsals, script analysis, concept design and general studies. Additional rehearsals, outside of the assigned class time, will be necessary to produce the show. This course provides practical use of theatrical studies. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 hours maximum). Prerequisite: Audition or instructor consent required. (0-3) RDRAM 3323 Performance in Historical Context (3 semester hours) Studies in theater and performance art. The course may consider eras such as Classical, Medieval, Renaissance, Realist, Contemporary, or Experimental Avant-Garde in the Western and Non-Western traditions. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 hours maximum). Prerequisite: DRAM 1310 or equivalent. (3-0) TDRAM 3324 Technical Theater 2 (3 semester hours) Designed to teach the advanced elements of theatrical skills, including lighting, sound, set, props, and costumes. Students will learn the foundations of the design process and how they apply to the completion of the production on stage. Practical work will apply with students required to attend weekly lectures and production lab hours. Prerequisite: DRAM 2371 or instructor consent required. (0-3) YDRAM 3325 Directing and Producing (3 semester hours) This course presents the principles and working methods of directing and producing theater, performance, and inter-media expressions. Emphasis will be on the development of skills required to bring a text or idea to presentation. Areas of focus will include imagination and conception, image and metaphor, analysis, planning, development-rehearsal process, and production. Will require out of class lab hours. Prerequisite: DRAM 1351 or instructor consent required. (0-3) RDRAM 3342 Advanced Topics in Theater (3 semester hours) Topics may vary from semester to semester. They include specialized courses in technical theater, production, performance and administration and are offered at the discretion of the instructor. Past courses include Voice Over and Stage Management. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 hours maximum). Prerequisite: DRAM 1310 or equivalent or instructor consent required. (3-0) RDRAM 3351 Light Design (3 semester hours) Students will learn the fundamentals of designing lighting for various events. Concerts, dance and theatrical productions will be covered. Proper procedures for creating a fully functional lighting design from concept and justification to plotting and implementation, color theory, texture, proper instrumentation, drafting, and justification are a few of the skills that students will learn through the course of the semester. Prerequisite: (DRAM 1310 and DRAM 3324) or instructor consent required. (3-0) RDRAM 3356 Acting 3 (3 semester hours) Material may focus on classic or contemporary drama or on original creations. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 hours maximum). Prerequisite: Audition or instructor consent required. (0-3) RDRAM 4v71 Independent Study in Drama (1-3 semester hours) Independent study under a faculty member's direction. Signature of instructor and ADU on proposed project outline required. May be repeated for credit (9 hours maximum). Prerequisite: Upper-division standing and instructor consent required. ([1-3]-0) Rbugz












2013 Undergraduate Catalog

General Information

About the 2013 Catalog
About UT Dallas
University Officers
UT System Regents
Contact Information
Faculty Roster
Search 2013 Undergraduate Catalog

Undergraduate Programs

Arts and Humanities

Art and Performance
ATEC
EMAC
Historical Studies
Literary Studies

Behavioral and Brain Sciences

Child Learning and Development
Cognitive Science
Neuroscience
Psychology
Speech-Language Pathology and Audiology

Economic, Political and Policy Sciences

Criminology
Criminology and Biology
Economics
Economics and Finance
Geospatial Information Sciences
International Political Economy
Political Science
Public Affairs
Sociology

Engineering and Computer Science

Biomedical Engineering
Computer Engineering
Computer Science
Electrical Engineering
Mechanical Engineering
Software Engineering
Telecommunications Engineering

Interdisciplinary Studies

American Studies
Healthcare Studies
Interdisciplinary Studies

Jindal School of Management

Accounting
Business Administration
Business Administration and Biology
Business Administration and Molecular Biology
Finance
Finance and Economics
Global Business
Management Information Systems
Marketing
Supply Chain Management

Natural Science and Mathematics

Actuarial Science
Biochemistry
Biology
Biology and Business Administration
Biology and Criminology
Chemistry
Geosciences
Mathematics
Molecular Biology
Molecular Biology and Business Administration
Physics
Biomedical Sciences (Cert)

Teacher Certification

Undergraduate Courses

Undergraduate Courses by Subject
Undergraduate Courses by School
Undergraduate Interdisciplinary Courses
Undergraduate Developmental Courses

Undergraduate Admission

About Admission
Application Fees and Deadlines
Freshman Admission
International Student Admission
Readmission
Special Admissions
Transfer Student Admissions

Undergraduate Curriculum

About Curriculum
Core Curriculum
Honors Programs
Other Degree Requirements

Tuition and Financial Aid

About Tuition and Financial Aid
Excessive Undergraduate Hours
Refund of Tuition and Fees
Other User Fees
Financial Aid
Types of Financial Aid

Policies and Procedures

List of Undergraduate Policies

Academic
Admission
Change of Address
Correspondence - Email
Courses
Degree Plans
Disciplinary Actions
FERPA
Graduate Courses
Graduation
International Education
Military Service
Registration
Religious Holy Days
Student Travel


University Resources

List of Resources

General Resources
Health Resources
Professional Resources
Student Complaint Resources


Catalog Appendices

Appendix I - Rules, Regulations, and Statutory Requirements
Appendix II - Transfer of Lower-Division Course Credit







The University of Texas at DallasUT Dallas ProvostCourseBookContact the Provost's Technology Group






(null clip target)













