



Public Affairs Management - UT Dallas 2013 Undergraduate Catalog - The University of Texas at Dallas































Jump to content
Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Catalog Home 
Undergraduate Catalogs 


2022 Undergraduate Catalog2021 Undergraduate Catalog2020 Undergraduate Catalog2019 Undergraduate Catalog2018 Undergraduate Catalog2017 Undergraduate Catalog2016 Undergraduate Catalog


 
Graduate Catalogs 


2022 Graduate Catalog2021 Graduate Catalog2020 Graduate Catalog2019 Graduate Catalog2018 Graduate Catalog2017 Graduate Catalog2016 Graduate Catalog









UT Dallas 2013 Undergraduate CatalogPublic Affairs ManagementPA 2325 Introduction to Public Service (3 semester hours) This course is designed to give students a broad introduction to public service. Students will explore the history of public service in American life, examine the contemporary erosion of interest in public service, explore different options for public service, and draw lessons from their own experience about how to increase the likelihood that more Americans will engage in public service during their lives. The course will also explore the range of alternatives for public impact, whether through traditional political participation (voting), personal volunteering and advocacy, service on nonprofit boards, socially-responsible engagement in corporate careers, social entrepreneurship, or careers in government and nonprofits. (3-0) YPA 3304 Research Methods in Public Administration (3 semester hours) Examines methods of Public Administration research. Topics include the nature of administrative inquiry, framing a research problem, choosing a research design, developing hypotheses, sampling designs, and measuring variables. Topics will be covered as students conduct their own study. (Same as CRIM 3304 and SOC 3304) (3-0) YPA 3310 Public Administration (3 semester hours) Overview of management responsibilities, functions, and activities in government agencies within the framework of political values and organization dynamics. (Same as PSCI 3310) (3-0) SPA 3314 Financial Management (3 semester hours) Financial accounting, control, and management for efficient and effective resource use within public and nonprofit organizations. (3-0) YPA 3333 Human Resources Management (3 semester hours) Leadership, motivation, decision making, conflict resolution, performance, and other important challenges of personnel management in government organizations. (3-0) YPA 3377 Urban Planning and Policy (3 semester hours) Explores important substantive areas and concepts in the field of urban and regional planning and current urban planning and policy issues and debates. Topics include: forces that have historically guided and are currently guiding U.S. urbanization; land use, growth management, transportation and traffic congestion, economic development, housing and community development, environmental planning; legal, environmental, governmental contexts. (Same as GEOG 3377) (3-0) YPA 3378 Public Finance and Economics (3 semester hours) This course focuses on the application of economic theories to understand the role of government. Students will learn how to use the tools of microeconomics to interpret the impacts of government policies. Topics include the role of tax, public expenditure policies, public goods, externalities, social security, and regulation. (3-0) YPA 3379 Diversity in the Public Sector (3 semester hours) This course will focus on diversity beyond just race/ethnicity and gender, and examine dimensions of sexual orientation, religion, skill level, physical ability, communication styles, and multi-generations in the workplace. Understanding diversity and learning how to manage its complexity is the key focus of this class. Students will examine the importance of multiple cultures in public organizations in work teams and discuss the challenges that come with multiculturalism. Social interactions that contribute to the understanding of difference groups in diverse settings are examined. (3-0) YPA 3380 Organizations and Management in the Public Sector (3 semester hours) This course covers the major topics, issues, and contributions in the literature on organizations and management, with emphasis on applications to government and nonprofit organizations. Class readings draw from leading scholars in a variety of disciplinary traditions in order to shed light on the historical development of the literature. Additionally, the course material will review some of the contemporary approaches to the study of organizations. (3-0) YPA 4340 Creating High Performance Organizations (3 semester hours) Explores the managerial behaviors required to build high levels of performance necessary in contemporary work organizations. Explores performance management, employee engagement and high quality services, and new discoveries in the neurosciences and psychology that enhance human well- being while creating more productive work environments. (3-0) YPA 4345 Negotiation and Conflict Resolution (3 semester hours) This course will introduce students to the theory and practice of negotiations in the public sector. Students analyze the parties, issues and strategies in negotiations and will take part in many negotiation simulations to develop their skills in issues identification and problem resolution. The course will begin with the study of two-party negotiations and progress to multi-party, multi-issue negotiations. (Same as PSCI 4345) (3-0) TPA 4350 Politics of Bureaucracy (3 semester hours) This course will provide an in-depth knowledge of some of the major issues in bureaucracy. It focuses on understanding the internal processes and politics as well as some of the external factors that play an important role in the dynamic world of public administration. This course will include varied topics such as administrators as policymakers, the role of ethics and accountability, and external intervention in the daily activities of the policymakers in order to explore the challenges faced by public administrators in the organization and management of public agencies. (3-0) RPA 4351 Urban Management (3 semester hours) Examination of ways in which the fiscal and administrative policies of local government shape the structure of opportunities and incentives in urban areas. (3-0) RPA 4355 Nonprofit Organizations (3 semester hours) This course addresses the basic concepts of the trillion dollar nonprofit sector (also known as the Third Sector) that includes education, research, health care, art, religion, social services, advocacy, legal services, international assistance, foundations and mutual benefit organizations. This comprehensive course provides a thorough introduction and understanding to the sector with a focus on the history of nonprofit organizations in America, qualifications for charitable groups, and international comparisons. (3-0) YPA 4360 Ethics in Public Administration (3 semester hours) Examines the relationship between ethical choices and the decision making of public managers. The ethics of organizational policies and public policies are also examined. (3-0) YPA 4370 Leadership (3 semester hours) Explores a full range of leadership theories and modern views of requisites for success in positions of leadership. Students will take from this course knowledge of leadership theories and practical knowledge for applying leadership principles in any organizational setting. (3-0) YPA 4386 Social Policy in Modern Societies (3 semester hours) Examines the controversies and research concerning the development of welfare states and public social provision. Particular emphasis is placed on the U.S. public social spending system, in historical and comparative perspective. Explanations of developments in social policies and an assessment of their applicability to the American welfare state and those of other societies are considered. (Same as SOC 4386) (3-0) RPA 4396 Topics in Public Administration (3 semester hours) Subject matters of current interest. Topics vary from semester to semester. May be repeated for credit (9 hours maximum). (3-0) RPA 4v97 Independent Study in Public Administration (1-9 semester hours) Independent study under a faculty member's direction. May be repeated for credit (9 hours maximum). Instructor consent required. ([1-9]-0) SPA 4v98 Internship (1-6 semester hours) May be repeated for credit (6 hours maximum). Instructor consent required. This course can only be taken Credit/No Credit. ([1-6]-0) SPA 4v99 Senior Honors in Public Administration (1-6 semester hours) For students conducting independent research for honors theses or projects. Instructor consent required. May be repeated for credit (6 hours maximum). ([1-6]-0) Rbugz












2013 Undergraduate Catalog

General Information

About the 2013 Catalog
About UT Dallas
University Officers
UT System Regents
Contact Information
Faculty Roster
Search 2013 Undergraduate Catalog

Undergraduate Programs

Arts and Humanities

Art and Performance
ATEC
EMAC
Historical Studies
Literary Studies

Behavioral and Brain Sciences

Child Learning and Development
Cognitive Science
Neuroscience
Psychology
Speech-Language Pathology and Audiology

Economic, Political and Policy Sciences

Criminology
Criminology and Biology
Economics
Economics and Finance
Geospatial Information Sciences
International Political Economy
Political Science
Public Affairs
Sociology

Engineering and Computer Science

Biomedical Engineering
Computer Engineering
Computer Science
Electrical Engineering
Mechanical Engineering
Software Engineering
Telecommunications Engineering

Interdisciplinary Studies

American Studies
Healthcare Studies
Interdisciplinary Studies

Jindal School of Management

Accounting
Business Administration
Business Administration and Biology
Business Administration and Molecular Biology
Finance
Finance and Economics
Global Business
Management Information Systems
Marketing
Supply Chain Management

Natural Science and Mathematics

Actuarial Science
Biochemistry
Biology
Biology and Business Administration
Biology and Criminology
Chemistry
Geosciences
Mathematics
Molecular Biology
Molecular Biology and Business Administration
Physics
Biomedical Sciences (Cert)

Teacher Certification

Undergraduate Courses

Undergraduate Courses by Subject
Undergraduate Courses by School
Undergraduate Interdisciplinary Courses
Undergraduate Developmental Courses

Undergraduate Admission

About Admission
Application Fees and Deadlines
Freshman Admission
International Student Admission
Readmission
Special Admissions
Transfer Student Admissions

Undergraduate Curriculum

About Curriculum
Core Curriculum
Honors Programs
Other Degree Requirements

Tuition and Financial Aid

About Tuition and Financial Aid
Excessive Undergraduate Hours
Refund of Tuition and Fees
Other User Fees
Financial Aid
Types of Financial Aid

Policies and Procedures

List of Undergraduate Policies

Academic
Admission
Change of Address
Correspondence - Email
Courses
Degree Plans
Disciplinary Actions
FERPA
Graduate Courses
Graduation
International Education
Military Service
Registration
Religious Holy Days
Student Travel


University Resources

List of Resources

General Resources
Health Resources
Professional Resources
Student Complaint Resources


Catalog Appendices

Appendix I - Rules, Regulations, and Statutory Requirements
Appendix II - Transfer of Lower-Division Course Credit







The University of Texas at DallasUT Dallas ProvostCourseBookContact the Provost's Technology Group






(null clip target)













