


Degree Plans (Print Version)









UT Dallas 2013 Undergraduate Catalog
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Degree Plans
A degree plan is a definition of the course of study necessary to fulfill the requirement for graduation. A degree plan is "major specific" and is established through collaboration between the student and the academic advisor for the student's major. Course changes within university sanctioned degree plans may be made with the approval of the Associate Dean of Undergraduate Education (ADU) or his or her designee. An initial degree plan must be filed as soon as possible after entering the major. Per State legislation effective fall semester 2012, all entering freshman students must file a degree plan no later than the end of the second regular semester following the semester in which the student earned 45 or more semester credit hours in accordance with Texas Education Code, Section 51.9685. The initial degree plan will be kept in the office of the academic advisor, ADU, or program head and will form the basis of the student's advisement.
In the semester preceding that in which a student plans to graduate the student is required to meet with her/his academic advisor to prepare a final degree plan along with the student's application for graduation (See "Graduation Requirements," located at catalog.utdallas.edu/2013/undergraduate/policies/graduation#requirements).
NOTE: A change of major requires preparation of a new degree plan.
Change of Major
Students wishing to change majors should complete an "Undergraduate Change of Major Request Form" (located at www.utdallas.edu/student/registrar/forms) in their academic advisor's office before registration and no later than the first day of classes of a semester/term. Students with 54 or more hours must seek approval of the Associate Dean for Undergraduate Education in the school of the intended major.
Students with a cumulative GPA below 2.000 may only change their major with permission from the Associate Dean of their current major and the Associate Dean of their intended major. Both Associate Deans' signatures are required on the "Undergraduate Change of Major Request Form" prior to its submission to the Office of the Registrar in the Student Services Building, first floor customer service area.
If the change of major is approved, the student will then be responsible for meeting all program requirements and course prerequisites of the catalog in effect at the time of the change. The Core Curriculum requirements, however, remain those of the catalog in force at the time of matriculation unless the student specifically chooses those of a more recent catalog. In the first semester of change to a new major, the student must meet with an academic advisor to prepare a degree plan.
Deadlines and Fees
The Office of the Registrar will accept "Undergraduate Change of Major" forms for processing up to the close of business on the first day of classes of each semester. Forms received after the first day of classes will be processed effective for the following semester.
All students are allowed to modify their major twice during their academic career at no charge. A modification is defined as a change, addition, or deletion of a major to a student's academic plan. A student's academic career begins the first class day of the first semester of enrollment at UT Dallas.
If a student elects to modify his/her major more than two times during an academic career, the third modification requires a $50.00 fee. EXCEPTION: There is no charge to move from the "undeclared major" category.
Declaring a Major
Undergraduate students must declare an academic course of study or major by the time they have earned 54 semester credit hours in order to continue enrollment. These hours include UT Dallas credits, credit transferred from other institutions, and hours awarded through credit by examination (AP, CLEP, IB, SAT, and so on).
Transfer students who have earned 54 hours at the time they apply for admission to UT Dallas may be undeclared for one semester.  These students will be advised in their first semester by the Student Outreach and Academic Retention (SOAR) advising office.  After the initial semester these students must then declare a major to be allowed to register for a subsequent semester.
Continuing students on academic probation who pass the 54-hour benchmark without declaring a major have a maximum of two long semesters to regain good academic standing. During this period students will remain undeclared. A student who fails to regain good standing within two long-semesters will be suspended from the University.
Double Major and Double Degree
Students should consult their advisors and/or primary school to learn more about double majors or double degrees. Additional information can be found at "Other Degree Requirements" at catalog.utdallas.edu/2013/undergraduate/curriculum/other-degree-requirements.
Updated: 2019-08-09 13:10:45 v2.9167ca




