


Graduate Courses (Print Version)









UT Dallas 2013 Undergraduate Catalog
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Graduate Courses
Upper-division undergraduates who are classified as seniors may petition their Associate Dean to take graduate courses by completing the appropriate form available in the student's academic advising office. If approved, these graduate courses can be applied toward satisfying undergraduate degree requirements or can be designated for future application toward a graduate degree requirement at UT Dallas. The student must declare at the time of registration for the course, on a form provided by the Undergraduate Associate Dean, how each approved course is to be applied. Once applied, the options cannot be changed. Approvals will be subject to the conditions outlined in the following sections.
Graduate Courses Applied Toward an Undergraduate Degree
With the approval of the student's Undergraduate Associate Dean, up to 12 semester credit hours of graduate work taken as an undergraduate may be used for completing any baccalaureate degree at The University of Texas at Dallas. Pass/Fail grading for graduate courses will be permitted only in this category but must be approved by the instructor prior to the start of class.
Graduate Courses for Possible Future Use as Graduate Credit
Undergraduates may take up to 12 semester credit hours of graduate courses to reserve for possible application toward a graduate degree. To register, undergraduate students must obtain permission from the course instructor and from the graduate advisor of the program in which the course is offered. Such courses with an earned grade of 'B' or better will be eligible for application to the student's graduate record when the student is admitted to a graduate program. These courses will not apply to the student's undergraduate degree and will not affect the student's undergraduate GPA.
Graduate Courses Taken in Fast Track Options
A number of programs at The University of Texas at Dallas offer an accelerated Fast Track option that allows qualified senior level undergraduate students to take specified masters level coursework. Specific admission requirements for Fast Track programs can be found within the descriptions of majors. Undergraduate students at UT Dallas who have been admitted to Fast Track programs leading to baccalaureate/master's degrees may, with the permission of the student's Undergraduate Associate Dean and the graduate advisor of the intended graduate program, take a maximum of 15 specified semester credit hours of graduate work, as a Fast Track student. The graduate hours may be used to complete the baccalaureate degree and also to satisfy requirements for the master's degree. The grade earned in the graduate coursework must be a 'B' (3.000) or better to be applied to the master's degree requirements. A student may only Fast Track into ONE graduate program.
Graduate programs at UT Dallas may accept admission to a Fast Track program as satisfying Graduate Record Exam (GRE) criteria for admission to the graduate program. The Naveen Jindal School of Management requires students to meet its graduate admission requirements including completion of the Graduate Management Admissions Test (GMAT) prior to receiving the baccalaureate degree.
A student must be classified as a senior in order to eligible for Fast Track. Associate Deans of Undergraduate Education (ADU) determine specific eligibility to take graduate courses as evidenced by the attachment of a degree plan to the application form. The student must declare at the time of graduation on a form provided by the Undergraduate Associate Dean, how each approved graduate course is to be applied (either Fast Track or towards undergraduate degree). Once applied, the options cannot be changed.
Updated: 2019-08-09 13:10:47 v2.ee6623




