



General Resources - UT Dallas 2020 Graduate Catalog - The University of Texas at Dallas































Jump to content
Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Catalog Home 
Undergraduate Catalogs 


2022 Undergraduate Catalog2021 Undergraduate Catalog2020 Undergraduate Catalog2019 Undergraduate Catalog2018 Undergraduate Catalog2017 Undergraduate Catalog2016 Undergraduate Catalog


 
Graduate Catalogs 


2022 Graduate Catalog2021 Graduate Catalog2020 Graduate Catalog2019 Graduate Catalog2018 Graduate Catalog2017 Graduate Catalog2016 Graduate Catalog









UT Dallas 2020 Graduate Catalog
Resources for Study and Campus Life
Callier Center for Communication Disorders
The Callier Center is an internationally recognized institution that offers services to people who have any type of communication disorder. Acknowledged for meeting the assessment, treatment, education, and social service needs of children and adults with communication disorders, the Center has programs in preschool education, parent education, and child development. Its clinical services include pediatric and adult services in audiology, speech pathology, and language development; its research activities include psychoacoustics, auditory neurophysiology, speech science, and audiology. Graduate classes are conducted at the Callier Center-Dallas facility, adjacent to The UT Southwestern Medical Center and at the Callier Center-Richardson facility on the main UT Dallas campus.
Campus and Residence Hall Solicitations
In accordance to Regents' Rule, 80103 and the Speech and Expression Assembly Policy, UTDSP5001, Subchapter B, section 46.07, no solicitation shall be conducted on any property, street, or sidewalk, or in any building, structure, or facility controlled by The University of Texas System (UT System) or UT Dallas, except by the officers or employees of the University, acting in the course and scope of their authority, or by the Student Government, or by a registered student, faculty, or staff organization of this institution. Such activities must be conducted in a manner that:

does not disturb any academic programs or administrative activities of the University or any program or activity that is authorized by UT System; 
does not interfere with entry to or exit from a building, structure, facility or with the flow of pedestrians or vehicular traffic on sidewalks or streets or at places of ingress and egress to and from property, buildings, or facilities;
does not harass or intimidate the person or persons being solicited; 
and does not violate applicable state, federal, or local laws or regulations.

Non-university groups, individuals, or associations are not permitted to solicit, distribute, or circulate any petitions, handbills, or other literature in university buildings or on the grounds.
All solicitations on the UT Dallas campus must conform to the Regents' Rules and the Speech and Expression Assembly policy, UTDSP5001; copies of which are available in the offices of the President, Executive Vice President and Provost, Vice Presidents, and Deans, and in numerous other administrative offices and the library.
Prior authorization to conduct solicitations or distribution of materials on campus by registered student organizations or by registered faculty or staff organizations must be obtained through the appropriate offices as outlined in the Speech and Expression Assembly policy, UTDSP5001.
Appropriate responses to violations of the above policy are outlined in the Speech and Expression Assembly policy, UTDSP5001, Subchapter L, section 46.49: (a) students will be reported to the Dean of Students, (b) the Office of the Vice President of Academic Affairs and Provost will handle faculty violations; and (c) staff members should be referred to Human Resources Services.
Career Center
The Career Center offers a full range of services to help students determine their future goals and design their career paths. Career Consultants are available to assist students from all majors. Services include career advising and interest assessments, resume and job search document critiques, mock interviews, job search assistance, and more. In-depth information is available on the Career Center's website.
Students can obtain assistance with searching for and applying for internships as well as information about options for academic credit based on their major. A variety of seminars on topics such as resume writing, cover letter writing, interviewing, networking, and conducting an effective job search are offered on a regular basis. Part-time jobs, full-time jobs, internship opportunities, volunteer positions, on-campus interview schedules, and career events are posted through Handshake, an online database. On-campus student employment and work-study positions are also posted through Handshake, with the exception of TA and RA positions, which are handled by the academic departments. All students have a Handshake account and just need to log in and complete their profile. Students upload a resume into the system in order to apply for qualified positions or to make it available for employer referrals.
Representatives of business, government, industry, education, and social agencies work directly with the Career Center to determine the best way to connect with students. Potential employers recruit students and alumni regularly through career expos, on-campus interviews, and information sessions and many other events throughout the year which can all be found on Handshake.
For more information, contact the Career Center in the Student Services Building room 3.300, telephone: 972-883-2943, web: www.utdallas.edu/career, email: Career Center.
Center for Students in Recovery
The Center for Students in Recovery provides a community where students can find safety and support in order to thrive and have the best college experience possible while living in recovery. The Center helps students with substance use disorders or unwanted behaviors, those affected by addiction, or individuals questioning or exploring the impact of potentially addictive behavior on his or her life.
For more information, contact the Center for Students in Recovery in person in the SSA, suite 14.270, Monday-Friday from 8 a.m.-5:00 p.m. or via telephone: 972-883-7320, email: recovery@utdallas.edu, or on the web at www.utdallas.edu/recovery.
Child Care Center
The Dallas International School (DIS) and UT Dallas jointly provide evening child care. Parents who attend classes are eligible for child care services during their evening class hours for children ages 4 to 11. Child care hours are from 3:30 p.m. to 10:30 p.m., Monday-Thursday. To register your child/children for the child care program please complete each of the forms in the enrollment packet. Call 972-883-6391 to have a packet sent to you, or pick one up in the Student Services Building, 4.400. More information can be found at www.utdallas.edu/childcare/.
Comet Card
The Comet Card is the official university identification card for all students, faculty, and staff. The Card allows access to campus facilities and services, including building access and meal plans, if applicable. It also offers an optional campus account, Comet Cash, for on-campus and some off-campus purchases. Cards are issued through the Comet Card Office located in the Student Services Addition Building, 12.324. At the Comet Card Office, you can also purchase postage stamps and discount tickets to movies, museums, and other local DFW attractions. For more information call 972-883-2495 or go to www.utdallas.edu/cometcard.
Comet Cents
The Comet Cents Money Management Center provides free education to currently enrolled students on personal financial topics such as saving/budgeting, credit management, student loans, identity theft and financial responsibilities after college.
Comet Cupboard
The Comet Cupboard is a UT Dallas food pantry initiative dedicated to helping students in need. Its primary mission is to provide necessary food and personal care items to members of the UT Dallas community, but its impact reaches much further. The Comet Cupboard acts as a service learning component of the undergraduate academic experience and strives to cultivate a campus culture where the community is valued above individualism. The Comet Cupboard is located in MC 1.604, in the basement of the McDermott Library.
Comet Families
The Comet Families program exists to engage family members of UT Dallas students as partners in the educational and personal development of their student.  Through communication, support, and involvement in campus programs, our office aims to develop lasting relationships between family members and the UT Dallas community. For more information call 972-883-6151 or go to www.utdallas.edu/family.
Comet Spirit Programs
Comet Spirit Programs is comprised of the UT Dallas Cheerleaders, Power Dancers, and Temoc. Temoc is the official mascot of UT Dallas and works with all spirit groups to build school spirit, promote community and cheer the Comets on to victory (www.utdallas.edu/spirit).
Community Standards and Conduct
The Office of Community Standards and Conduct encourages student learning, growth, and development by promoting awareness of the University's expectations of behavior, holding students accountable for violations of these expectations, and developing educational sanctions designed to address the consequences of student decisions. More information can be found at www.utdallas.edu/conduct or by calling 972-883-6391.
Computer Facilities
The Office of Information Technology provides computing facilities for student, faculty, and staff use in instruction and research.  General access computer labs are located on the first floors of the Founders Building and the McDermott Library Building. The labs provide a modern, networked computing environment with Windows-based and Macintosh computers, scanners, and more.
Dedicated systems are also available to support such functions as campus information services, programming, research-related activities, and computationally intensive applications. A sophisticated campus-wide network permits offices and laboratories direct access to extensive computing resources both on- and off-campus. The University maintains high bandwidth connections to the commodity Internet as well as appropriate research and education networks, such as Internet 2.
Remote administrative services are provided through the Galaxy portal (galaxy.utdallas.edu), and remote access to the campus network and computing resources is provided through VPN (Virtual Private Networking) services. The University provides wireless LAN access to the campus community across most of the institution. Currently enrolled UT Dallas students and employed faculty and staff may utilize the campus network using devices with the appropriate wireless network interface. Guest wireless access is also provided on request. The latest information regarding computing services can be found at the Information Technology website at www.utdallas.edu/oit.
Many of the schools, programs, and research centers operate their own computing facilities that are available to students as appropriate.
CourseBook Tool
CourseBook is a tool to search for and obtain information related to course scheduling, course descriptions, and course location. CourseBook also contains course syllabi (syllabus), textbook information, course evaluations, and instructor curriculum vitae within one web portal.  Go to coursebook.utdallas.edu.
Dean of Students
The Dean of Students provides leadership in the development, overall management, and supervision of student organizations and activities and serves as an information/referral source for students needing assistance in any situation. The Dean of Students Office is in the Student Services Building, 4.400, and can be contacted at 972-883-6391 or on the web at www.utdallas.edu/deanofstudents.
Distance Education
Education opportunities at the University include courses and entire programs taught online via the Internet. UT Dallas currently offers courses in a number of areas from across the campus, including courses in teacher education and the natural sciences. Furthermore, distance learning opportunities at The University of Texas at Dallas now utilize e-learning technologies to provide students the opportunity to engage in coursework from remote locations and without the time constraints of the traditional face-to-face classes.
Blended (or hybrid) courses that utilize both on- and off-campus presentation, providing students an opportunity to maximize their learning by collaborative learning experiences are also available. UT Dallas also works with a number of partner institutions to provide students additional learning opportunities through exchange programs and other collaborative programs both nationally and internationally.
More information about specific distance learning programs or courses at The University of Texas at Dallas and registration procedures can be found in the Class Schedule or on the distance learning website.
Financial Literacy Training
In accordance with Texas Education Code, Section 51.305, the University provides students information and resources to acquire financial literacy skills through a series of lectures and/or online courses. By accessing these resources at the Comet Cents Financial Success Center website and meeting with peer financial coaches, students learn how to budget, to build and maintain credit, and to develop skills in managing their personal finances, including health care and other benefits, investing for the future, loans and repayments, retirement planning, saving accounts, and taxes.
Fraternity and Sorority Life
Fraternity & Sorority Life at UT Dallas is young, philanthropic, and entrepreneurial.  Our chapters reflect the university in that members are vibrantly diverse, academically proud, and are actively preparing members for successful careers. The UT Dallas Fraternity and Sorority Life office seeks to promote, develop, and enhance the pillars that our community prides itself on: Belonging, Opportunity, and Personal Development. Join us and be a part of something no one else offers: The opportunity to invent tradition daily. 
For more information about our community and activities call 972-883-6523 or go to www.utdallas.edu/gogreek.
The Galerstein Gender Center
The Galerstein Gender Center is a campus resource that fosters a safe and inclusive environment by advocating for gender equity and diversity through leadership development, education, programs, and services. 
Advocate for gender equity and inclusive campus policies and practices 
Educate the campus and broader community on gender and LGBT+-related topics
Empower women and LGBT+ communities with confidence and skills for success 
Connect students, staff, faculty and community to resources, mentors, scholarships, internships and volunteer opportunities 
Honor and celebrate national days of recognition and individuals who are making an impact in the lives of girls, women and LGBT+ communities
For more information, please contact the GGC at 972-883-6555, located in SSB 4.300.
Intercollegiate Athletics
UT Dallas is a member of the NCAA Division III American Southwest Conference. The UT Dallas athletic program includes 17 sports - eight men's (baseball, basketball, cross country, golf, soccer indoor and outdoor track and field and tennis) and nine women's sports (basketball, cross country, golf, soccer, softball, tennis indoor and outdoor track and field and volleyball). Both undergraduate and graduate students are able to participate if they have NCAA eligibility remaining. Athletics is the home of the UT Dallas Esports team - a co-ed program featuring League of Legends, Overwatch, Super Smash Brothers and Rocket League. Esports arena is located inside the Student Union. Athletic Administrative offices are located in the Activity Center. For additional information call 972-883-4490 or go to utdcomets.com.
International Resources
International Center
The UT Dallas International Center (IC) provides programs and services for students interested in studying abroad, international students enrolling at UT Dallas, and students interested in other international activities.  The International Center is located in the Student Services Building, SSB 3.400.  More information is available online at www.utdallas.edu/ic.
Education Abroad
Education Abroad (EA). UT Dallas offers many international opportunities for both graduate and undergraduate students, including exchange programs, faculty-led programs, internships, independent studies, and affiliated partner study abroad programs. The Education Abroad office provides information on available opportunities, university policies governing program options, eligibility requirements, basic preparation, institutional protocol, education abroad fees, and the International Education Fund Scholarship. Information is available through special events, group meetings, individual appointments, reference materials, and at the Education Abroad website, www.utdallas.edu/ea
Students may apply for the UT Dallas International Education Fund (IEF) Scholarship to request financial support for education abroad programs. Information about the IEF Scholarship, including eligibility requirements and deadlines, is available at the Education Abroad website (utdallas.edu/ea/iefs). Students may consult with the Office of Financial Aid to determine how participation in education abroad impacts existing financial aid offerings.
International Risk and Safety monitors and facilitates traveler compliance with international travel requirements, which form the institutional safety net for travelers going abroad on behalf of the University; provides resources, information, and support on the international travel insurance program for faculty, staff, and students on University international travel; provides risk and safety training, and related support and resources; provides 24/7 crisis response for UT Dallas travelers abroad, review of risk mitigation plans, and research and analysis on locations considered High Risk Regions. More information can be found at www.utdallas.edu/rs or by e-mailing IRSO@utdallas.edu.
Intercultural Programs
Intercultural Programs (ICP) offers transitional programs for international students and promotes intercultural competency development through high-quality, innovative, educational, and collaborative programming. Some of Intercultural Programs' largest events include International Week, International Student Orientation, Cultural Workshops, and iFriend, a matching program between American and international students.
International Student Services Office
The International Student Services Office (ISSO) serves as a primary resource to the UT Dallas international student community by providing student immigration services (prospective, current, and graduated students), federal SEVIS reporting, student immigration advising, F and J immigration processing, and ancillary immigration programs and services. See www.utdallas.edu/isso.  Specific legal advice may be sought through immigration attorney services provided by the Student Government. Further information can be found by contacting Student Government.
International Student Definitions and Fees
All international students enrolling in UT Dallas courses are required to pay the International Student Special Services Fee for the ongoing support of non-immigrant students enrolled at UT Dallas. Immigrant categories that are exempt include: U.S. citizen; Permanent Resident (PR card required); Conditional Resident; Temporary Protected Status; Refugee; Asylee; Public Interest Parolee; Temporary Residence-Amnesty; People with no documented immigration status.
Any F-1 student participating in Optional or Curricular Practical Training programs is required to pay the Practical Training Maintenance of Status Fee at the point of each Practical Training application. This fee funds the additional administrative and clerical expenses required to review records and process the forms required by the United States Citizenship and Immigration Service to certify international students for placement in curricular or optional practical training assignments.
All F-1 and J-1 students enrolling in UT Dallas courses for the first time are charged the International Orientation fee to support the administrative cost of running the mandatory international orientation program.
Any student whose immigration status officially changes is required to submit proof of that change to the UT Dallas Registrar's Office and International Student Services Office (ISSO). If the status changes to an exempt classification, the student will not, subsequently, be assessed the International Student Special Services Fee. If the appropriate documentation is submitted prior to Census Day of a semester, the fee for that semester will be refunded based on the tuition refund schedule as published in the UT Dallas Academic Calendar.
Registration Requirements
Prior to enrollment, international students are required to meet the Tuberculosis test and Meningitis vaccine requirements (see Student Health Center). All F-1 and J-1 students must attend an International Student Orientation prior to registering in UT Dallas courses. 
Military and Veteran Center
The UT Dallas Military and Veteran Center (MVC) provides multi-faceted support for veteran and military-affiliated students, from admission through graduation, to facilitate achievement of academic and career goals. Military-affiliated students include veterans, current military service members, military spouses and dependents, and ROTC cadets. The space includes an open study area, two study rooms, computing stations, lounge, microwave, and coffee. The MVC is located in the SSA in suite 14.250 and is open Monday to Friday from 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. For more information, call 972-883-4913 or go to www.utdallas.edu/veterans.
Multicultural Center
The Multicultural Center (MC) provides cultural programs, support services, resources and cultural education programs. The MC is a place for students, faculty and staff to gather and relax. The MC has a comfortable lounge area with a television, videos, computer lab, work station, and a meeting room. Traditional events hosted by the MC are Hispanic Heritage Month, Black History Month, MLK Jr. Breakfast, Asian-American Heritage Celebration, Native American Heritage program, and the Diversity Dinner Dialogues. The MC is home to the Multicultural Peer Advocates (MPA's). The MPA's are student peer advocates that are available for personal, social or academic assistance.
Office hours are Monday through Thursday 8:30 a.m. - 6:00 p.m., Friday 8:30 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. Location: Student Services Building. Email: Multicultural Center. Telephone: 972-883-6390. Website: www.utdallas.edu/multicultural. Director: Arthur Gregg.
Residential Life
UT Dallas views residential life as an integral part of the education process. The Residential Life office seeks to provide structure, support, and a sense of community that will complement your classroom experience through:

Programs and events
On-site peer advisors and professional staff 
Student organizations, such as Residential Housing Association and National Residence Hall Honorary
24-hour support and assistance
Leadership opportunities
Community involvement
Roommate mediation

For more information call 972-883-7430 or go to www.utdallas.edu/reslife. 
Respective Responsibilities of Students and Faculty
Student Responsibility
Students are responsible for reading this catalog and understanding the programs, rules, and regulations affecting their academic progress. Further, students are responsible for fulfilling degree requirements and for enrolling in courses that fit into their degree programs.
Students are urged to plan their work with care, consulting their graduate advisors and those of the teaching staff under whom their work will be taken, and to bear in mind the requirements for the degree they seek. Students are responsible for developing a program of studies approved by their graduate advisor acting on behalf of the Graduate Studies Committee for the graduate program in which they are enrolled. The program of study must assure substantial mastery of the scholarly apparatus of the student's chosen field as well as any languages or other research skills necessary to pursue the degree. The requirements for a particular degree are listed in this catalog under the name of the specific program.
In addition, all graduate students must visit their graduate advisors prior to registration for the semester in which they plan to graduate.
Faculty Responsibility
Faculty members are responsible for reading this catalog and understanding the programs, rules, and regulations so that they can effectively advise students.
Each graduate program has a Graduate Studies Committee that is responsible for the academic content of the programs of studies required for degrees, subject to certain administrative approvals. Each committee has responsibility for the acceptance of graduate students and for the approval of the specific program of study for each student. Each committee also has the responsibility for naming graduate advisors to advise graduate students until the time of appointment of their thesis or dissertation supervising committees, if any. Supervising committees must meet at least once each year and file an annual report on students' progress with the Dean of Graduate Education.
Road Warriors
The Road Warriors program is committed to enriching the collegiate experience of commuter students at UT Dallas. We serve the commuter student population through information, resources and social programs. For more information call 972-883-6171 or go to www.utdallas.edu/roadwarriors.
Student AccessAbility
Student AccessAbility ensures that qualified students with documented disabilities have an equal opportunity to participate in educational, recreational, and social activities at UT Dallas. Students with disabilities are urged to contact Student AccessAbility as soon as they are admitted to the University. Student AccessAbility is located in the Administration Building 2.224, and can be contacted at 972-883-2098 or on the web at www.utdallas.edu/studentaccess.
Student Activities
Student Union and Activities Advisory Board (SUAAB) is a group of student leaders dedicated to programming diverse social and educational events to enhance the student experience. Events coordinated by SUAAB include annual Homecoming entertainment, Comet Con, Springapalooza, comedians, concerts, and more. SUAAB is located in the SSA in suite 13.451 and can be contacted at 972-883-6438 or on the web at www.utdallas.edu/suaab.
Meteor Theater is a student-run movie program that screens popular movies on campus. Meteor Theater also screens films with lectures that reflect hot topics in today's world through its Cinematheque program. Meteor Theater host the annual Cosmic Film Festival to encourage an interest and appreciation of student-created, original movies and short films. Meteor Theater is located in the SSA in suite 13.451 and can be contacted at 972-883-6215 or on the web at www.utdallas.edu/meteortheater.
Student Affairs
The Division of Student Affairs, under the direction of the Vice President for Student Affairs, offers a variety of student services and programs to enhance the educational experience of all enrolled students. For more information go to www.utdallas.edu/studentaffairs.
Student Counseling Center
The Student Counseling Center staffed by licensed psychologists, counselors, and social workers who are available to help students maintain their sense of health and well-being. with personal and interpersonal problems. - remove the light green words.  Services include individual counseling, couple counseling, group counseling, crisis intervention and special workshops/programs relevant to student needs. In addition, a psychiatric team is available to provide Student Counseling Center clients with medications when necessary. The Student Counseling center utilizes a short-term model, and services are goal-focused and brief. Services focus on resources, solutions and strategies to deal with student concerns.
AAll counseling services and records are held confidential to the extent permitted by law and are governed by the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act, the Texas Open Records Act, and Article 5561(h), Vernon's Annotated Texas Civil Statutes. The Student Counseling Center is located in the Student Services Building, SSB 4.600. For more information call 972-883-2575 or go to www.utdallas.edu/counseling.
Student Government
Student Government is the official representative body and voice of UT Dallas students. Students have the opportunity to participate through serving on committees, running for office, or voting in elections. Student Government provides many free services for students, including attorney services and the Comet Discount Program. Further information may be obtained from the Student Government Offices in the Student Union (SU Suite 2.4), by calling 972-883-2284, or by going to www.utdallas.edu/student/sg.
Student Health Center
The Student Health Center offers routine medical services and treatment to all currently enrolled students who have paid the medical services fee and are attending classes. Services include physicals, diagnosis and treatment of acute illnesses and injuries, general medical problems, gynecological problems, treatment of stabilized chronic illnesses, allergy injections, limited immunizations, x-rays, and ultrasound. Care providers include Physician Assistants, Nurse Practitioners, and a Staff Physician. While there is no out-of-pocket cost to students for most services, there are charges for laboratory services, medications, and specific procedures provided to individual students. Charges incurred by students who are covered by the UT Student Health Insurance Plan are billed directly to the insurance company. Students not covered by this plan must pay for services at the time they are provided. The Student Health Center also provides information on the prevention and transmission of HIV infection and AIDS, and offers related testing and education programs. Students are also encouraged to be current on all recommended immunizations.
All services or treatment obtained from medical facilities other than the Student Health Center are the responsibility of the individual student. The staff at the Student Health Center can make referrals to off-campus medical providers as appropriate.
All medical services and records of the UT Dallas Student Health Center are held confidential to the extent permitted by law and are governed by the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act, the Texas Open Records Act, and Article 5561(h), Vernon's Annotated Texas Civil Statutes. The Student Health Center is located in the Student Services Building, SSB 4.700. Call 972-883-2747 for more information or go to www.utdallas.edu/healthcenter.
Bacterial Meningitis Vaccination Requirement
Per State legislation effective January 1, 2012, all entering Texas college students must receive a vaccination or booster (if the vaccination is five years old) against bacterial meningitis before enrollment in accordance with Texas Education Code, Section 51.9192.
The vaccine or booster is required for entering students at Texas public and private colleges, living both on- and off-campus.

An entering student is a new student or a student who has had a break of enrollment for one or more fall or spring semesters.  Summer semester is not included as a break in enrollment.
Transfer students are considered entering students. Transfer students may request an official memo stating proof of vaccination (within the last five years) from their previous institution and submit with the vaccination requirement form.
Students who are enrolled only in online courses are exempt if they supply an online exemption form.
Entering students 22 years of age or older are exempt.

The student, or parent or guardian of the student, must provide a meningococcal meningitis vaccine requirement form with an official immunization record or other required documentation listed on the form, showing the student has received the bacterial meningitis vaccination or booster during the five-year period prior to enrollment, and not less than 10 days before the first day of classes.
Students opting to decline the vaccination for bacterial meningitis for reasons of conscience, including religious belief, should request an affidavit through the Texas Department of State Health Services.
Entering students will be unable to register until the paperwork is received and reviewed. The Office of the Registrar sends electronic notifications to students about the vaccination or booster requirement until the paperwork is received.
Mail proof of bacterial meningitis vaccination and form to the following address:
Office of the Registrar, SSB 13  The University of Texas at Dallas  800 West Campbell Road  Richardson, TX 75080-3021  OR  Email bacterial meningitis vaccination documentation to the Office of the Registrar.
Questions concerning the bacterial meningitis requirement and forms should be directed to the Office of the Registrar, 972-883-2342 or go to www.utdallas.edu/registrar.
Hepatitis B Vaccination Requirement
A Hepatitis B vaccination is required for students enrolled in a course of study that involves potential exposure to human or animal blood or bodily fluids in accordance with Texas Education Code, Section 51.933.
Mandatory Tuberculosis Screening for International Students

Tuberculosis (TB) screening is required for all persons born outside the United States, regardless of the status of their application. (Note: Being granted the resident tuition rate does NOT exempt an international student from this requirement.)
Screening for TB must be administered, regardless of prior BCG vaccination, no more than (6) months prior to the first day of class.
The only acceptable TB screening options are the Interferon Gamma Release Assay (IGRA) blood test and T-Spot. A TB skin test will NOT be accepted.
The T-Spot or IGRA blood test must be administered and interpreted in the United States by a licensed medical provider.
International students who do not complete a TB screening will NOT be allowed to register for classes.
The T-Spot test is available through the on-campus Student Health Center at a reasonable cost.
TB holds will be released by 8:00 a.m. the following day after the T-Spot (TB screening) test has been administered. At this time students will be able to register for classes. Results of the T-Spot test will be available four business days after the test is administered. If a T-Spot result is positive, the student will be contacted by the Student Health Center. A hold will be placed on the student's account until a follow-up visit is conducted with the Student Health Center to administer additional required testing/screenings. During this time, students will not be permitted to attend classes. Failure to comply may result in disciplinary action. This hold may prevent students from registering for future classes, receiving grades, and possibly receiving a degree.

Appropriate documentation secured from a U.S. licensed medical provider may be sent to the following address:
Student Health Center, SSB 43  The University of Texas at Dallas  800 West Campbell Road  Richardson, TX 75080-3021
See the UT Dallas Student Health Center website for more detailed information.
Recommended Immunizations
The following vaccines are recommended but not required:

Hepatitis A and B
Human Papillomavirus (HPV)
Influenza (flu)
Measles, mumps, rubella (MMR) - 2 doses (required for international students)
Tetanus, diphtheria, pertussis (Tdap)
Varicella (chicken pox)

For more information, please visit www.utdallas.edu/healthcenter/immunizations.
Student Health Insurance
The University of Texas at Dallas Student Health Insurance Office, under the direction of the Student Health Center, provides unique and confidential health insurance advising services for UT Dallas students. Health insurance is available to all students at UT Dallas and is required of all international students holding F1, F2, J1, or J2 non-immigrant visas. International students holding F1, F2, J1, or J2 visas are automatically assessed the Student Health Insurance (SHI) fee at the time of registration for classes. International students are responsible to pay the fee unless they apply for and are granted an insurance waiver based on documentation of other comparable insurance coverage. Contact the Student Health Insurance Office for more information at 972-883-2747 or on the web at www.utdallas.edu/healthcenter/insurance.
Student Leadership Programs
Student Leadership Programs, offered through the Student Development Office, help students to develop and enhance competence and self-knowledge as it pertains to leadership in a global society. Students have the opportunity to participate in a certificate program, workshops, webinars, and retreats and conferences. For more information call 972-883-2242 or go to www.utdallas.edu/leadership.
Student Media
The award-winning student newspaper of UT Dallas, The Mercury, publishes biweekly on Mondays throughout the school year. The newspaper offers paid positions for writers, editors, graphic designers, and photographers.
Radio UTD, the student-run Internet radio station, features an eclectic and freeform mix of music and original programming including news and talk shows. College Music Journal has recognized Radio UTD as one of the best Internet radio stations in the United States.
AMP, a student opinion magazine that focuses on student life, global politics, arts, events, and social commentary, publishes once per month during the fall and spring semesters.
UTD TV, a web-based television station provides a medium for broadcasting news, entertainment shows, and other content produced by students.
Student Ombuds Office 
The Student Ombuds Office is a safe, welcoming and confidential space for students who wish to discuss university-related concerns or issues. The office provides support to students who encounter challenges and conflicts, while empowering students with strategies, options and tools to help them identify their own course of resolution.   To schedule a meeting, send an email to studentombuds@utdallas.edu, call 972-883-6968 or visit the office, located in Room 14.120 of the Student Services Addition building.   More information may be found at www.utdallas.edu/ombuds.
Student Organization Center
The Student Organization Center (SOC) helps UT Dallas students become more connected to campus life. SOC provides programming and services for registered student organizations and assists students in creating new organizations. Visit us in the Student Union (SU 2.416) or go to www.utdallas.edu/soc.
Student Organizations
Registered student organizations provide the major means by which students can connect to campus life while developing friendships, interests, talents, and leadership skills. There are over 300 student organizations at UT Dallas that cater to a variety of interests, such as academic and honor groups, service clubs, religious groups, ethnic groups, and special interest groups. Detailed information on the groups and guidelines for forming new organizations is available in the Student Organization Center (Student Union, 2.416). For additional information call 972-883-6551 or go to www.utdallas.edu/soc.
Student Success Center
The Student Success Center offers academic support to currently enrolled undergraduate students. The SSC assists students in meeting their academic goals across a wide variety of subject areas including writing, communication, math, science, and other difficult courses. Peer Leaders tutor and mentor students via review sessions, individual appointments, small group learning, and workshops.
Peer Tutoring offers assistance for various STEM courses through drop-in tutoring, reviews, and appointments.  
The Writing Center provides constructive feedback and writing support for undergraduate students via individual appointments and workshops.
The Peer-Led Team Learning (PLTL) offers weekly cohort-style sessions designed to encourage a collaborative study environment for math, chemistry, and physics courses. Registration is required.
Supplemental Instruction (SI) provides collaborative and interactive group study sessions for students enrolled in various courses.
The CommLab provides practical feedback and resources for improving oral presentation through one-on-one and group appointments.
Academic Success Coaching offers one-on-one support and workshops in time management, effective study strategies, and goal setting.
The Institute for Peer Education (formerly Institute for Peer Mentoring) provides a cohesive curriculum to help improve UTD mentoring programs. Level 1 and Level 2 certifications are offered for mentors and tutors.
The Student Success Center's main office is located in the McDermott Library Building and can be contacted by calling 972-883-6707 or by sending an email to the Center.
Student Transition Programs
Student Transition Programs welcomes new students and their families to the University! Through a welcoming and inclusive atmosphere, we provide the framework for students to learn and develop as they adjust to the expectations, standards, and academic rigors of the University while fostering pride in the UT Dallas community. Student Transition Programs is located in the Student Services Addition, 14.431, and can be contacted at 972-883-6171 or on the web at www.utdallas.edu/transition.
Student Union
The Student Union is a welcomed space on campus for all students, faculty, and staff to visit and promotes activities such as getting a bite to eat, meeting for coffee, having fun with friends, or conducting important meetings and events. Open seven days a week, it includes a TV lounge, study lounges, pool tables, ping-pong tables, and several dining options such as MARKET, Firehouse Subs, Halal Shack, Smoothie King, Chick-Fil-A, Panda Express, and a 3,000 square foot full service Starbucks. The Student Union Mall, Plinth, and the Student Union Green are outside locations that provide ample space to enjoy beautiful weather and participate in various student activities.
The Student Services Building, connected to the Student Union, is a 65,000 square foot facility that houses departments such as the Multicultural Center, Enrollment Services, The International Center, Intercultural Programs, Career Center, Student Health Center, Student Counseling Center, Student AccessAbility (Remove), Student Wellness Center, Dean of Students Office, and The Galerstein Gender Center. Also open seven days a week, the building provides common areas for studying and one meeting room that can be reserved for formal functions.
The Student Services Addition, connected to the Student Services Building, is a 70,000 square foot facility that houses Student Affairs departments such as The Comet Card Office, The Vice President of Student Affairs, New Student Programs, Student Volunteerism, The Center for Students in Recovery, and The Military and Veteran Center. Also open seven days a week, the building includes six meeting rooms and ample common area space that are perfect for formal and informal meetings, studying, and relaxing. Students are welcomed to try their skill and compete against friends on a massive, nine screen video gaming wall. A 520 seat theater provides a superior experience to watch movies, comedians, concerts, lectures, and important student-centered events. 
Student Volunteerism
The Office of Student Volunteerism offers students a variety of opportunities to lend their time and talents in service to the communities of UT Dallas, North Central Texas, and beyond. Programs include Alternative Spring Break, Earth Week, Freshmen Engaged in Service Together, National Hunger and Homelessness Awareness Week, National Volunteer Week, OSV Student Leadership Program, UT Dallas Community Garden, Viva Volunteer, Volunteer Expo, monthly opportunities, recurring volunteer events, special projects, environmental initiatives, and year-round donation drives. The Office of Student Volunteerism is located in the SSA in suite 14.431T and can be contacted at 972-883-6131 or on the web at www.utdallas.edu/volunteer.
Student Wellness Center
The Student Wellness Center assists and encourages students to adopt responsible behaviors related to various health topics through evidence-based educational programs, resources and individual consultations. Programs include alcohol and other drug education, nutrition, sexual assault prevention, sexual responsibility, suicide prevention, tobacco education, bystander intervention and public health initiatives. The Student Wellness Center has a registered dietitian on staff to aid students in healthy meal planning and also coping with eating disorders. The Student Wellness Center is located in the Student Services Building, SSB 4.500, and can be contacted at 972-883-4275 and studentwellness@utdallas.edu or on the web at www.utdallas.edu/studentwellness.
Textbooks
The University Bookstore stocks all required textbooks and software. Textbook information for specific courses is available within the CourseBook web portal at coursebook.utdallas.edu. Textbook information includes International Standard Book Number (ISBN) and retail price information; data is collected from the campus bookstore on a regular basis.  For additional assistance, click on the help tab within coursebook.utdallas.edu.
The University of Texas at Dallas advises students that they are not under any obligation to purchase a textbook from a university-affiliated bookstore. The same textbook may also be available from an independent retailer, including an online retailer. (Texas Education Code 51.9705; 19 TAC 4.215)
Transfer Student Services
Transfer Student Services provides support to new and returning transfer students to ensure their successful transition into UT Dallas. Programs include Transfer Orientation in Spring, Summer, and Fall, Transfer Coffee and Conversations, Faculty/Transfer Student Research Mixer, the Transfer Student Leadership Program, and more. Transfer Student Services also supports the Tau Sigma National Honor Society for Transfer Students. Transfer Student Services is located in the Student Services Addition, 14.431, and can be contacted at 972-883-6170 or on the web at www.utdallas.edu/transferservices.
University Housing Information
University Housing offers several on-campus living options for UT Dallas students who desire to live within walking distance to academic buildings, activity centers, dining options, and the library. Housing options include University Commons residence halls and apartments in University Village and Canyon Creek Heights.
University Commons residence halls have suite-style rooms that accommodate three students. Each suite is furnished and has three private bedrooms, a shared bathroom area, and a shared living area. In accordance with university policy, all freshmen who choose to live on campus are required to live in University Commons residence halls. Students may apply to live in a Living Learning Community (LLC). Please refer to the Living Learning Communities and Residential Life sections of this guide for additional information.
University Village and Canyon Creek Heights apartments offer several floor plans. All units include a refrigerator, dishwasher, and electric range/oven. Select units have a clothes washer and dryer. University Village Apartments are unfurnished. Canyon Creek Heights apartments are furnished with bed, desk, dresser, chair, sofa, and tables.
Additional University Housing amenities include internet in every unit, swimming pools, sport courts, common areas for studying and recreation, package holding locations, on-site maintenance teams, and 24-hour police patrols.
UT Dallas does not currently check criminal history records for on-campus housing students. The University is entitled to obtain criminal history information that relates to a student or applicant who applies to reside in on-campus housing and will notify the individual if the information is used to deny them housing. Texas Government Code, Section 411.0945.
For more information please go to www.utdallas.edu/housing.
Contact Information:
University Housing OfficeResidence Hall WestTelephone: 972-883-7430Email: Housing Office
University Village Housing Office2800 Waterview Parkway Suite #200Richardson, TX 75080Telephone: 972-883-7300Email: Housing Office
University Libraries
Eugene McDermott Library and the Callier Library support the research, instruction, and community service programs of the University by providing access to information in both print and electronic forms. The libraries consist of over two and a half million items, including more than 71,000 electronic journals, 1 million electronic books, and thousands of media, microforms, and maps.
Callier Library is a satellite facility dedicated to supporting the Callier Center for Communication Disorders and the Center for BrainHealth in downtown Dallas. It specializes in materials on speech and hearing disorders.
McDermott Library, located on the UT Dallas campus, is not only a federal depository library, it is also a Texas state depository. Government documents are available in a variety of formats. Other important documents and research collections are housed within The Special Collections Department. Collections include the Wineburgh Philatelic Research Library, the Louise B. Belsterling Collection, the History of Aviation Collection, and the UT Dallas Archives. The Library also has a rare books collection. Distance learners can access the ever-expanding digital collection through the library's website. Current students, staff, and faculty have access to electronic resources such as databases, e-journals, e-books, and audiobooks. McDermott is also developing Treasures, a digital institutional repository to showcase the research and scholarship conducted at the University.
Staff members at both locations provide active support for all the people they serve. Librarians consistently hold class and individual instruction on the use of the library, how to conduct research and how to develop information literacy skills. Both McDermott and Callier Library offer students with disabilities a range of services to encourage their independent research.
If McDermott and Callier do not have requested items, library customers can utilize the Interlibrary Loan Service. This service provides students with books or articles from a network of major libraries.
University Recreation
University Recreation provides UT Dallas students, faculty and staff with diverse recreational programs to enhance their overall educational experience. The Activity Center includes a 10,000 square foot fitness center, four racquetball courts, two squash courts, four basketball courts, two multi-purpose rooms, climbing wall and an indoor swimming pool. Outdoor spaces include two sand volleyball courts and three basketball courts. Rec Center West is located directly next to Residence Hall West and Dining Hall West. It is available to all students, faculty and staff. Rec Center West's gym courts will be reserved primarily for badminton and volleyball. The center also includes a cardio fitness space and multipurpose room for additional workout needs. University Recreation also offers students opportunities to participate in a variety of intramural and club sports, group exercise classes, outdoor excursions, and non-credit courses. For additional information call 972-883-2096 or go to www.utdallas.edu/urec.
UT Online Consortium
In addition to the online courses listed in the catalog, there are additional offerings that students may take through the UT Online Consortium (UTOC). The UTOC is the centralized support center for online education throughout The University of Texas System. On the website (www.utcoursesonline.org) you will find a listing of programs and courses, enrollment services, Texas Information System (TIS), academic calendars, campus contacts, course login information, and learning resources. Designated contacts at each campus are available to assist you, as are the student services support staff of the UTOC. With questions please call toll-free: 1-888-TEXAS-16 (1-888-839-2716).
Updated: 2020-04-16 13:03:07 v2.a5f806bugz












2020 Graduate Catalog

General Information

About the 2020 Catalog
About UT Dallas
University Officers

President
President's Cabinet
Administrative Officers/Deans

UT System Regents
Contact Information
Faculty Roster
Search 2020 Graduate Catalog

Graduate Programs

Arts and Humanities

About Arts and Humanities
Art History

Art History Program
Art History (MA)

History

History Program
History (MA)

History of Ideas

History of Ideas Program
History of Ideas (MA)
History of Ideas (PhD)

Humanities

Humanities Program
Humanities (MA)
Humanities (PhD)
Certificate in Holocaust Studies

Latin American Studies

Latin American Studies Program
Latin American Studies (MA)

Literature

Literature Program
Literature (MA)
Literature (PhD)

Visual and Performing Arts

Visual and Performing Arts Program
Visual and Performing Arts (MA)
Visual and Performing Arts (PhD)

ARHM Certificates

Certificate in Holocaust Studies


Arts, Technology, and Emerging Communication

About Arts, Technology, and Emerging Communication
Master of Arts in ATEC (MA)

Arts, Technology, and Emerging Communication - Interaction Design (MA)
Arts, Technology, and Emerging Communication - Emerging Media Studies (MA)

Master of Fine Arts in ATEC (MFA)

Arts, Technology, and Emerging Communication - Animation (MFA)
Arts, Technology, and Emerging Communication - Creative Practice (MFA)
Arts, Technology, and Emerging Communication - Game Development (MFA)

Doctor of Philosophy in ATEC (PhD)

Behavioral and Brain Sciences

About Behavioral and Brain Sciences
BBS Doctoral Programs
Neuroscience

Applied Cognition and Neuroscience (MS)

Human Development and Early Childhood Disorders

Human Development and Early Childhood Disorders (MS)

Psychology

Psychology (MS)

Speech, Language and Hearing Sciences

Speech-Language Pathology (MS)
Audiology (AuD)


Economic, Political and Policy Sciences

About Economic, Political and Policy Sciences
Criminology

Criminology (PhD)
Criminology (MS)
Justice Administration and Leadership (MS)

Economics

Economics (PhD)
Economics (MS)

Geospatial Information Sciences

Geospatial Information Sciences (PhD)
Geospatial Information Sciences (MS)

Political Science

Political Science (PhD)
Political Science (MA)

Political Science (MA)
Political Science (MA) - Law and Courts Concentration
Political Science (MA) - Legislative Studies Concentration


Public Affairs

Public Affairs (PhD)
Public Affairs (MPA)

Public Policy and Political Economy

Public Policy and Political Economy (PhD)
Cyber Security, Technology, and Policy (MS)
International Political Economy (MS)
International Political Economy Dual Degree (MS)
Master of Public Policy (MPP)

Social Data Analytics And Research

Social Data Analytics And Research (MS)

Sociology

Applied Sociology (MS)

EPPS Certificate Programs

About EPPS Certificate Programs
Certificate in Economic and Demographic Data Analysis
Certificate in Geographic Information Systems (GIS)
Certificate in Geospatial Intelligence (GeoInt)
Certificate in Local Government Management
Certificate in Nonprofit Management
Certificate in Program Evaluation
Certificate in Remote Sensing


Engineering and Computer Science

About Engineering and Computer Science
Bioengineering

Department of Bioengineering
Biomedical Engineering (MS)
Biomedical Engineering (PhD)

Computer Engineering

Computer Engineering Program
Computer Engineering (MS)
Computer Engineering (PhD)

Computer Science

Department of Computer Science
Computer Science (MS)
Computer Science (PhD)
Certificate in Information Assurance

Electrical Engineering

Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Electrical Engineering (MS)
Electrical Engineering (PhD)

Materials Science and Engineering

Department of Materials Science and Engineering
Materials Science and Engineering (MS)
Materials Science and Engineering (PhD)

Mechanical Engineering

Department of Mechanical Engineering
Mechanical Engineering (MS)
Mechanical Engineering (PhD)

Software Engineering

Department of Computer Science
Software Engineering (MS)
Software Engineering (PhD)
Executive Masters of Science in Software Engineering

Systems Engineering

Department of Systems Engineering
Systems Engineering and Management (MS-SEM)
Executive Masters in Systems Engineering and Management

Telecommunications Engineering

Telecommunications Engineering Program
Telecommunications Engineering (MS)
Telecommunications Engineering (PhD)

Engineering and Management Graduate Degrees

Engineering and Management Graduate Degrees
Engineering and Management Graduate Degrees (MSEE+MBA)
Engineering and Management Graduate Degrees (MSEE+MS)
Systems Engineering and Management (MS-SEM)
Double MSSEM/MBA
Executive Masters in Systems Engineering and Management
Executive Education Double MSSEM/MBA Degrees

Geospatial Information Sciences

Geospatial Information Sciences (PhD)

Industrial Practice Programs

Industrial Practice Programs (IPP)

ECS Certificate Programs

Certificate in Cybersecurity Systems
Certificate in Information Assurance
Certificates in Systems Engineering or Systems Management
Executive Education Certificates in Systems Engineering or Systems Management


Interdisciplinary Studies

About Interdisciplinary Studies
Post-Baccalaureate Program for Teacher Certification

Jindal School of Management

About Jindal School of Management
Accounting (MS)
Business Administration (MBA)
Business Analytics (MS)
Energy Management (MS)
Finance (MS)
Financial Technology and Analytics (MS)
Healthcare Leadership and Management

Healthcare Leadership and Management (MS)
Healthcare Leadership and Management - Certificate Programs

Information Technology and Management (MS)
Innovation and Entrepreneurship (MS)
International Management Studies (MS)
Management Science (MS)
Marketing (MS)
Supply Chain Management (MS)
Systems Engineering and Management (MS)

Systems Engineering and Management (MS-SEM)
Certificates in Systems Engineering or Systems Management
Double MS-SEM/MBA
Executive Masters in Systems Engineering and Management

Engineering and Management Graduate Degrees (MSEE+MBA/MS/MA)
JSOM Doctoral Programs

International Management Studies (PhD)
Management Science (PhD)

Executive Education Programs

About Executive Education Programs
Executive MBA (EMBA)
Global Leadership MBA (GLEMBA)
Project Management (Cert/MS/EMBA)
Supply Chain Management (Cert/MS/EMBA)
Healthcare Leadership and Management

Healthcare Leadership and Management (MS)
Healthcare Leadership and Management Executive MBA (MS/EMBA)
Healthcare Leadership and Management for Healthcare Professionals (MS)
Healthcare Leadership and Management Executive MBA for Healthcare Professionals (MS/EMBA)

Organizational Behavior and Coaching (Cert/MS)
Executive and Professional Coaching (Cert)
Systems Engineering and Management (MS-SEM/Cert)
Double MS-SEM/MBA Degree (MS-SEM+GLEMBA)

JSOM Certificate Programs

Business Intelligence and Data Mining Certificate
Corporate Innovation Certificate
Cybersecurity Systems Certificate
Enterprise Systems Certificate
Executive and Professional Coaching Certificate
Healthcare Information Technology Certificate
Lean 6 Sigma Green Belt in Healthcare Management Certificate
Lean 6 Sigma Yellow Belt in Healthcare Management Certificate
Negotiation and Mediation Certificate
New Venture Entrepreneurship Certificate
Organizational Consulting Certificate
Product Lifecycle/Supply Chain Management Certificate
Project Management Certificate
Research Foundations in Accounting Certificate
Strategic Human Resources (HR) Certificate
Systems Engineering or Systems Management Certificates
Executive Education Certificates in Systems Engineering or Systems Management
Transformational Leadership Certificate


Natural Sciences and Mathematics

About Natural Sciences and Mathematics
Biological Sciences

Department of Biological Sciences
Biotechnology (MS)
Molecular and Cell Biology (MS)
Bioinformatics and Computational Biology (MS)
Molecular and Cell Biology (PhD)

Chemistry and Biochemistry

Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry
Chemistry (MS)
Chemistry (PhD)

Geosciences

Department of Geosciences
Geosciences (MS)
Geospatial Information Sciences (MS)
Geosciences (PhD)
Geospatial Information Sciences (PhD)

Mathematical Sciences

Department of Mathematical Sciences
Mathematics (MS)
Statistics (MS)
Actuarial Science (MS)
Bioinformatics and Computational Biology (MS)
Mathematics (PhD)
Statistics (PhD)

Physics

Department of Physics
Physics (MS)
Physics (PhD)

Science and Mathematics Education

Science and Mathematics Education (MA)

Interdisciplinary Programs

Bioinformatics and Computational Biology (MS)
Geospatial Information Sciences (MS)
Geospatial Information Sciences (PhD)


Teacher Education Certification

Graduate Courses

Graduate Courses by Subject
Graduate Courses by School

Graduate Admission

About Admission
Admission Requirements
Admission Requirements Documentation
Special Admission Requirements
Application Fees and Deadlines

Tuition and Financial Aid

About Tuition and Financial Aid
Academic Common Market
Refund of Tuition and Fees
Other User Fees
Financial Aid
Types of Financial Aid

Policies and Procedures

List of Academic Policies and Procedures
Registration and Enrollment

Registration and Enrollment Requirements
Orientation
Academic Good Standing
Continuous Enrollment
Registration Dates
Schedule Changes - Dropping, Adding and Withdrawing From Courses
Registration Fees
Leave of Absence
Withdrawal (Resignation) from the University
Readmission

Cooperative Arrangements

Cooperative Arrangements
Concurrent Enrollment at Other Public Institutions
The University of Texas System
Visiting Student Program
Texas A&M University System

Course Policies

Auditing Courses
Course Numbering System
Course Offerings
Frequency of Course Offerings
Course Load
Repeating Coursework
Final Examinations

Fast Track

Fast Track Option
Program Requirements
Choice of Graduate Degree and Cross-Tracking
Choice of Graduate Courses
Transition to MA Program After BA Degree
Official Transcription

Grades

Grades and Grade Point Average
Incomplete Grade
Grade Changes
Pass/Fail Grading

Military Service

Military Service Activation Interruption of Education

Remain Enrolled and Complete Coursework Following Brief Military Service
Withdraw, Receive Incomplete Grade, or Receive Final Grade
Readmission Following Military Service

Delayed Disbursements From the VA Under Chapter 31 or 33

Undergraduate Registration for Graduate Courses

Undergraduate Registration
Applied Toward an Undergraduate Degree
Possible Future Use as Graduate Credit

Other Policies

Academic Record and Official Transcription
Change of Address, Email, or Name
Copyrighted Material
Correspondence - Email
Criminal Background Check
Emergency Response, Fire Safety, and Security
FERPA
Hazing
International Travel, Policies and Services
Making a False Alarm or Report
Religious Holy Days
Student-Right-To-Know and Campus Security Act (Clery Act)
Student Travel Policy
Use of Facilities

Graduate Degree Program Policies and Procedures

List of Graduate Degree Program Policies and Procedures
Graduate Degree Program Policies

Program of Studies/Degree Plan
Milestones Agreement Form
Change of Program
Transfer of Credit
General Degree Requirements
Required Semester Credit Hours
Required Grade Point Average
Registration Requirements
Time Limits
Additional Master's Degrees
Supervising Committee for Thesis and Dissertation
Master's Thesis
Admission to Doctoral Candidacy
Doctoral Dissertation
Final Oral Examination for Doctoral Candidates
Required Copies of Dissertation and Thesis
Intellectual Property Rights

Graduation Requirements

Graduation Under a Particular Catalog
Application for Graduation
Graduation under In Absentia Registration
Commencement Ceremonies


Policy on Procedures for Completing a Graduate Degree
Addedum

University Resources

List of Resources
General Resources
Health Resources
International Resources
Student Complaint Resources







The University of Texas at DallasUT Dallas ProvostCourseBookContact the Provost's Technology Group






(null clip target)













