



Disciplinary Actions Associated with Academic Standing - Policies and Procedures - UT Dallas 2022 Undergraduate Catalog - The University of Texas at Dallas































Jump to content
Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Catalog Home 
Undergraduate Catalogs 


2022 Undergraduate Catalog2021 Undergraduate Catalog2020 Undergraduate Catalog2019 Undergraduate Catalog2018 Undergraduate Catalog2017 Undergraduate Catalog2016 Undergraduate Catalog


 
Graduate Catalogs 


2022 Graduate Catalog2021 Graduate Catalog2020 Graduate Catalog2019 Graduate Catalog2018 Graduate Catalog2017 Graduate Catalog2016 Graduate Catalog









UT Dallas 2022 Undergraduate Catalog
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Disciplinary Actions Associated with Academic Standing
Academic Good Standing
Students at UT Dallas are expected to maintain a grade point average (GPA) of at least 2.000 on a 4.000 scale, which equates to a C average. Additionally, students are expected to maintain a GPA of 2.000 in their major-related courses to remain in Academic Good Standing.
Disciplinary Status Overview
UT Dallas maintains academic disciplinary policies to encourage students to make the necessary academic and life changes to succeed. Students (including those who seek second baccalaureate degrees or post-baccalaureate non-degrees) who fail to meet the minimum expectations of Academic Good Standing must meet more stringent standards and regularly consult with academic advisors.
a. Disciplinary Policy for First-Degree Seeking Students
The disciplinary policy provides a student with several opportunities to make the necessary adjustments prior to a final dismissal from UT Dallas.
UT Dallas Disciplinary Status:

Academic Probation
Academic Warning
First Academic Suspension (One Semester)
Second Academic Suspension (One Year)
Final Dismissal

b. Disciplinary Policy for Second Baccalaureate Degrees or Post-Baccalaureate Non-Degree Seeking Students
Students who earned an undergraduate degree at UT Dallas or another institution of higher education and are enrolled at UT Dallas are subject to the provisions of this policy, except that they may only be placed on the following disciplinary statuses:

Academic Probation
Academic Warning
Final Dismissal

Each Disciplinary Status will be indicated on the student's academic record.
Academic Probation
If a student's cumulative GPA falls below a 2.000, the student will be placed on Academic Probation. Academic Probation will be indicated on the student's academic record.
Academic Probation is designed to help students make the required adjustments to achieve success and a degree at UT Dallas. These adjustments will vary based upon the individual circumstances of each student, but should be taken seriously.
If a student is placed on Academic Probation, the student will be required to follow certain protocols and meet higher academic standards. These protocols and standards are designed to bring the student back to Academic Good Standing and allow the student to meet graduation requirements.
A student on Academic Probation is required to meet the following Academic Probation Requirements for the semester:
Academic Probation Requirements:

Earn a minimum semester GPA of 2.200.
May not withdraw or request an incomplete from a class.
Meet with your School academic advisor prior to registration.
Retake all required Major and University Core Courses failed the previous semester.1
Register for a maximum of 15 semester credit hours in a long semester or 9 semester credit hours in a summer semester.2
Maintain satisfactory progress towards graduation.
For students with less than 60 UT Dallas earned semester credit hours:  (a) Meet with a Student Outreach and Academic Retention (SOAR) office advisor.   (b) Follow the SOAR advising plan developed with the advisor.

If a student on Academic Probation meets the Academic Probation Requirements but fails to achieve a cumulative GPA of 2.000, the student will remain on Academic Probation and must continue to comply with all Academic Probation Requirements.
If at any time, a student's cumulative GPA meets the minimum requirements of 2.000 overall the student will regain Academic Good Standing. A student's cumulative GPA is only affected by UT Dallas coursework. Coursework at another institution cannot be used to return a student to Academic Good Standing.
1. The Associate Dean of the student's school reserves the right to alter this requirement on a case-by-case basis.
2. The Associate Dean of the student's school reserves the right to alter this requirement on a case-by-case basis. If a student has registered for more than 15 semester credit hours prior to his or her placement on Academic Probation, the student's schedule must be reduced to a maximum of 15 semester credit hours. The student is required to meet with his or her School academic advisor to find an appropriate adjustment to the student's academic schedule.
Academic Warning
A student will be placed on Academic Warning for failure to meet the Academic Probation Requirements. A student on Academic Warning is also required to meet the Academic Warning Requirements as listed below:
Academic Warning Requirements:

Earn a minimum semester GPA of 2.200.
May not withdraw or request an incomplete from a class.
Meet with your School academic advisor prior to registration.
Retake all required Major and University Core Courses failed the previous semester.3
Register for a maximum of 15 semester credit hours in a long semester or 9 semester credit hours in a summer semester.4
Maintain satisfactory progress towards graduation.
For students with less than 60 UT Dallas earned semester credit hours:  (a) Meet with a Student Outreach and Academic Retention (SOAR) office advisor.  (b) Follow the SOAR advising plan developed with the advisor.

Academic Warning should be a wake-up call for students who have not been able to make the adjustments required of students on Academic Probation. If a student is placed on Academic Warning, the student should consider dramatic alterations in all of the circumstances that affect his or her academic progress. The student should increase the volume of work with the SOAR advisor and meet with his or her Faculty Mentors or Associate Dean to determine an academic path to success.
If the student meets the Academic Warning Requirements, but the student does not have a cumulative GPA of 2.000, the student will remain on "continued warning" status as shown on his or her transcript. If the student again fails to meet the Academic Warning Requirements, the student will be suspended.
When placed on suspension, it is the student's responsibility to submit required documents to meet the readmission requirements for re-entry. Readmission is not guaranteed.
If at any time, a student's cumulative GPA meets the minimum requirements of 2.000 overall the student will regain Academic Good Standing. A student's cumulative GPA is only affected by UT Dallas coursework. Coursework at another institution cannot be used to return a student to Academic Good Standing.
3. The Associate Dean of the student's school reserves the right to alter this requirement on a case-by-case basis.
4. The Associate Dean of the student's school reserves the right to alter this requirement on a case-by-case basis. If a student has registered for more than 15 semester credit hours prior to his or her placement on Academic Probation, the student's schedule must be reduced to a maximum of 15 semester credit hours. The student is required to meet with his or her School academic advisor to find an appropriate adjustment to the student's academic schedule.
Academic Departure
First-degree seeking students who leave the University on Academic Probation or Academic Warning may be readmitted with the same status, even if they have attended another institution in the interim. Performance at another institution will be a factor in the readmission decision.
Academic Suspension
First-degree seeking students are automatically placed on Academic Suspension for failure to meet the Academic Probation Requirements while on Academic Warning. Second baccalaureate degree-seeking or post-baccalaureate non-degree seeking students shall be subject to final dismissal for failure to meet the Academic Probation Requirements while on Academic Warning.
First-degree seeking students on Academic Suspension may not enroll in, audit, or visit a class unless readmitted as described below. Students who have already pre-registered for classes will automatically be dropped from all classes. Notice of Academic Suspension will show on the student's academic record.
Length of Academic Suspension

A student's First Academic Suspension will be for a period of one long semester.
A student's Second Academic Suspension will be for a period of one year (12 months).
A student's third Academic Suspension is Final Dismissal from UT Dallas without a possible readmission.

Readmission
A student, who has been placed on suspension, must complete and submit for approval the Undergraduate Academic Suspension Readmission Petition Form for readmission. It is the student's responsibility to submit required documents to meet the readmission requirements for re-entry. Readmission is based on academic work elsewhere that indicates good prospects of success at UT Dallas (as determined by his or her Associate Dean). The student should meet with his/her UT Dallas academic advisor about appropriate coursework prior to enrolling in courses at another institution. Readmission is not guaranteed.
A student placed on One Long Semester Academic Suspension must petition to his or her Associate Dean for readmission. If the student has not declared a major or is a non-degree seeking student, the student must petition the Dean of Undergraduate Education.
A student placed on One Year Academic Suspension must petition to his or her Associate Dean for readmission. The Dean of Undergraduate Education must approve the readmission of all students placed on One Year Academic Suspension.
A student that is readmitted may be subject to additional probationary conditions placed upon them by the Associate Dean or Dean of Undergraduate Education. Such additional probationary conditions may be individual to the student and his or her academic circumstances, but will be designed to encourage the student to reach Academic Good Standing and be eligible for Graduation.
A student who reenters the University after Academic Suspension will reenter on Academic Warning.  The student should follow the requirements as outlined in the Academic Warning section of the catalog. 
Changing Majors
A student may find that his or her interests and skills are better suited to a different academic discipline. If a student has been placed on Academic Suspension and wishes to select a different academic discipline, the student must first complete the "Undergraduate Change of Major Form" prior to petitioning for readmission. If the Change of Major is approved, the student must petition to the new Associate Dean for readmission.
Updated: 2021-08-02 12:09:34 v2.0d8ae8bugz












2022 Undergraduate Catalog

General Information

About the 2022 Catalog
About UT Dallas
University Officers

President
President's Cabinet
Administrative Officers/Deans

UT System Regents
Contact Information
Faculty Roster
Search 2022 Undergraduate Catalog

Undergraduate Programs

Arts and Humanities

About Arts and Humanities
History
Latin American Studies
Literature

Literature
Literature with Creative Writing
Literature with Rhetoric and Communication
Literature with Spanish

Philosophy
Visual and Performing Arts

VPA with Art History
VPA with Communication
VPA with Dance
VPA with Film
VPA with Interdisciplinary Arts
VPA with Music
VPA with Photo-Video-Digital
VPA with Theatre
VPA with Visual Arts

Minors

Arts, Technology, and Emerging Communication

About Arts, Technology, and Emerging Communication
Arts, Technology, and Emerging Communication
ATEC with Animation and Games
ATEC with Critical Media Studies
ATEC with Emerging Media Arts
Minors

Behavioral and Brain Sciences

About Behavioral and Brain Sciences
Child Learning and Development
Cognitive Science
Neuroscience
Psychology
Speech, Language, and Hearing Sciences
Minors

Economic, Political and Policy Sciences

About Economic, Political and Policy Sciences
Criminology

Criminology
Criminology and Biology

Economics

Economics
Economics and Finance

Geospatial Information Sciences
International Political Economy

International Political Economy
International Political Economy and Global Business

Political Science
Public Affairs
Public Policy
Sociology
Minors

Engineering and Computer Science

About Engineering and Computer Science
Biomedical Engineering
Computer Engineering
Computer Science

Computer Science
Data Science

Electrical Engineering
Mechanical Engineering
Software Engineering
Certificates
Minors

Interdisciplinary Studies

About Interdisciplinary Studies
American Studies
Healthcare Studies
Education
Interdisciplinary Studies
Minors

Jindal School of Management

About Jindal School of Management
Accounting
Business Administration

Business Administration
Certificate in Innovation and Entrepreneurship

Business Analytics
Finance

Finance
Finance and Economics

Global Business

Global Business
Global Business and Human Resource Management
Global Business and International Political Economy
Global Business and Marketing
Global Business and Supply Chain Management

Healthcare Management

Healthcare Management
Healthcare Management and Biology
Healthcare Management and Molecular Biology

Human Resource Management

Human Resource Management
Human Resource Management and Global Business

Information Technology and Systems
Marketing

Marketing
Marketing and Global Business

Supply Chain Management

Supply Chain Management
Supply Chain Management and Global Business

Minors

Natural Science and Mathematics

About Natural Science and Mathematics
Biology

Biology
Biology and Criminology
Biology and Healthcare Management
Molecular Biology
Molecular Biology and Healthcare Management

Chemistry and Biochemistry

Biochemistry
Chemistry

Geosciences
Mathematical Sciences

Actuarial Science
Data Science
Mathematics

Physics
Biomedical Sciences (Cert)
Minors
UTeach Options

Teacher Certification
Honors College
Undergraduate Minors

Undergraduate Courses

Undergraduate Courses by Subject
Undergraduate Courses by School

Undergraduate Admission

About Undergrad Admission
Admission Criteria for First-Time in College Freshmen

Automatic Admission
Reviewed Admission

Admission Criteria for Transfer Students

Automatic Admission
Application of Transfer Credit
Transfer Admission Criteria

International Student Admission
Admission Policies

Credit by Examination
Criminal Background Check
Texas Success Initiative (TSI)

Registration Requirements
Legislative Requirements
TSI Provisions
TSI Exemptions

Developmental Education

Developmental Education at UT Dallas
Placement into Developmental Education Courses
Participation and Attendance in Developmental Education


Readmission
Special Admissions
Application Fees and Deadlines

Undergraduate Curriculum

About Curriculum
Core Curriculum
Honors Programs
Other Degree Requirements

Tuition and Financial Aid

About Tuition and Financial Aid
Excessive Undergraduate Hours
Refund of Tuition and Fees
Other User Fees
Financial Aid
Types of Financial Aid

Policies and Procedures

List of Undergraduate Policies
Academic Policies

Academic Advising
Academic Grievances
Academic Progress
Academic Record and Official Transcription
Dean's List
Final Examinations
Grade Changes
Grade Point Average
Grading Scale
Incomplete Grades
Mid-Term Grades
Scholastic Status
Transcripts
Transfer Credit
Transfer Disputes for Lower-Division Courses
Reverse Transfer Transcripts

Admission Policies

Admission Criteria for First-Time in College Freshmen

Automatic Admission
Reviewed Admission

Admission Criteria for Transfer Students

Automatic Admission
Application of Transfer Credit
Transfer Admission Criteria

Credit by Examination
Criminal Background Check
Texas Success Initiative (TSI)

Registration Requirements
Legislative Requirements
TSI Provisions
TSI Exemptions

Developmental Education

Developmental Education at UT Dallas
Placement into Developmental Education Courses
Participation and Attendance in Developmental Education


Course Policies

Course Offerings
Auditing Courses
Course Load
Guidelines for Course Numbering
Course Numbering System
Credit/No Credit Classes
Independent Study
Internship Program
Repeating Coursework

Degree Plans

Degree Plans
Change of Major
Deadlines and Fees
Declaring a Major
Double Major and Double Degree

Disciplinary Actions Associated with Academic Standing

Academic Good Standing
Disciplinary Status Overview
Academic Probation
Academic Warning
Academic Departure
Academic Suspension
Readmission
Changing Majors

Fast Track

Fast Track Option
Program Requirements
Choice of Graduate Degree and Cross-Tracking
Choice of Graduate Courses
Transition to Master’s Program after Bachelor’s Degree
Official Transcription

Graduate Courses

Graduate Courses
Applied Toward an Undergraduate Degree
Possible Future Use as Graduate Credit

Graduation Policies

Timely Graduation
Application for Graduation
Commencement Ceremonies
Graduation with Honors
Graduation Under a Particular Catalog
Graduation Requirements

Registration Policies

Classification of Students
Registration
Registration Dates
In Absentia Registration
Concurrent Enrollment at Other Public Institutions of Higher Education
Cooperative Agreements
Visiting UT System Students Program
Deadlines for Adding or Dropping a Class
Dropping and Withdrawing
Administrative Drop
Drop Appeal Procedures
Non-Academic Withdrawals
Appeal of a Denied Petition for Non-Academic Withdrawal
Repeated Non-Academic Withdrawal
Withdrawal/Resignation from the University
Refunds Following Withdrawal

Military

Military Training Awarded as Academic Course Credit
Military Service Activation Interruption of Education

Remain Enrolled and Complete Coursework Following Brief Military Service
Withdraw, Receive Incomplete Grade, or Receive Final Grade
Automatic Readmission Following Military Service

Delayed Disbursements From the VA Under Chapter 31 or 33

Student Travel

Student Travel Policy
Education Abroad

Policies
Options
Eligibility and Conditions
Financial Information
Transfer Credit and Graduation
International Travel, Policies and Services


Other Policies

Change of Address, Email, or Name
Copyrighted Material
Correspondence - Email
Emergency Response, Fire Safety, and Security
FERPA
Hazing
Making a False Alarm or Report
Religious Holy Days
Student-Right-To-Know and Campus Security Act (Clery Act)
Use of Facilities

Addendum

University Resources

List of Resources
General Resources
Health Resources
International Resources
Professional Resources
Student Complaint Resources







The University of Texas at DallasUT Dallas ProvostCourseBookContact the Provost's Technology Group






(null clip target)













