


Appendix II - Transfer of Lower-Division Course Credit (Print Version)









UT Dallas 2013 Undergraduate Catalog

Appendix II


 Transfer of Lower-Division Course Credit

 The following procedures are established in the Texas Administrative Code, Title 19, Chapter 4, Subchapter B, Section 4.27 of the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board rule pertaining to transfer of lower-division course credit. The designated official at The University of Texas at Dallas to be contacted regarding a transfer dispute for a lower-division course is the Dean of Undergraduate Education.

 
 4.27. Resolution of Transfer Disputes for Lower-Division Courses
 
 The following procedures shall be followed by public institutions of higher education in the resolution of credit transfer disputes involving lower-division courses:
 
 If an institution of higher education does not accept course credit earned by a student at another institution of higher education, the receiving institution shall give written notice to the student and to the sending institution that transfer of the course credit is denied, and shall include in that notice the reasons for denying the credit.
 
 A student who receives notice as specified in paragraph (1) of this subsection may dispute the denial of credit by contacting a designated official at either the sending or the receiving institution.
 
 The two institutions and the student shall attempt to resolve the transfer of the course credit in accordance with Board rules and guidelines.
 
 If the transfer dispute is not resolved to the satisfaction of the student or the sending institution within 45 days after the date the student received written notice of denial, the sending institution may notify the Commissioner in writing of the request for transfer dispute resolution, and the institution that denies the course credit for transfer shall notify the Commissioner in writing of its denial and the reasons for the denial.
 
 
 The Commissioner or the Commissioner's designee shall make the final determination about a dispute concerning the transfer of course credit and give written notice of the determination to the involved student and institutions.
 Each institution of higher education shall publish in its course catalogs the procedures specified in subsections (a), (b), (d), and (e) of this section.
 The Board shall collect data on the types of transfer disputes that are reported and the disposition of each case that is considered by the commissioner or the Commissioner's designee.
 If a receiving institution has cause to believe that a course being presented by a student for transfer from another school is not of an acceptable level of quality, it should first contact the sending institution and attempt to resolve the problem. In the event that the two institutions are unable to come to a satisfactory resolution, the receiving institution may notify the Commissioner, who may investigate the course. If its quality is found to be unacceptable, the Board may discontinue funding for the course.
 
 



Updated: 2019-08-09 13:10:43 v2.b8d522




