


About Admission (Print Version)









UT Dallas 2013 Undergraduate Catalog
Undergraduate Admission
About Undergraduate Admission
The University of Texas at Dallas is a comprehensive, state supported institution of higher learning, offering a variety of programs at the undergraduate, masters, and doctoral levels. UT Dallas is committed to providing quality education to a diverse student body and offers programs designed for both full-time and part-time students. The University of Texas at Dallas accepts applications for admission from freshmen and transfer students at all levels for the fall, spring and summer semesters.
The Office of Admission and Enrollment Services is the gateway to the University for prospective undergraduate students. Professional admission counselors provide information regarding the college selection process through mailings, school visits, college fairs, campus tours, the Internet (www.utdallas.edu/enroll), and a variety of other special events. Campus tours are provided weekdays at 10:00 a.m. and 2:00 p.m. In addition, The Office of Admission and Enrollment Services provides pre-admission counseling sessions for both freshmen and transfer students regarding eligibility for admission and transferability of coursework.
Admission to UT Dallas is open to all candidates on the basis of academic preparation, ability, and availability of space without regard to race, color, religion, national origin, gender, age, disability, citizenship, veteran status, or sexual orientation.
Questions related to undergraduate admissions should be addressed to:
Office of Admission and Enrollment Services, ROC 11The University of Texas at Dallas800 West Campbell RoadRichardson, Texas 75080-3021Telephone: 972-883-2270Fax: 972-883-2599
The Office of Admission and Enrollment Services is located in the Student Services Building.
As with all state institutions of higher education, the procedures and criteria for admission used by UT Dallas are effective as of the publication date of this catalog but are subject to change by actions of the Texas Legislature or the Board of Regents.
Applying for Admission
To apply to UT Dallas, all students should submit an application for admission, which is available through Apply Texas. Applicants are required to submit official copies of all past academic transcripts, test scores, and other degree specific documentation by the appropriate application deadlines to be considered for admission to The University of Texas at Dallas.
Official transcripts in envelopes sealed by the issuing institution may be delivered to the Office of Admission and Enrollment Services, or may be mailed directly from the educational institution. All materials submitted towards an application file become the property of the University and will not be returned to the applicant.
Updated: 2019-08-09 13:10:36 v2.1a435c




