



Literature - UT Dallas 2020 Graduate Catalog - The University of Texas at Dallas































Jump to content
Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Catalog Home 
Undergraduate Catalogs 


2022 Undergraduate Catalog2021 Undergraduate Catalog2020 Undergraduate Catalog2019 Undergraduate Catalog2018 Undergraduate Catalog2017 Undergraduate Catalog2016 Undergraduate Catalog


 
Graduate Catalogs 


2022 Graduate Catalog2021 Graduate Catalog2020 Graduate Catalog2019 Graduate Catalog2018 Graduate Catalog2017 Graduate Catalog2016 Graduate Catalog









UT Dallas 2020 Graduate CatalogLiteratureLIT 5348 Topics in Literary Studies (3 semester credit hours) May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) RLIT 6300 Proseminar in Literary Studies (3 semester credit hours) Introduction to the key concepts, issues, and debates in the discipline of literary studies. (3-0) YLIT 6304 Studies in Literary Themes (3 semester credit hours) Examination of specific themes as they appear in various literary works and traditions. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) TLIT 6305 The Anti-Hero (3 semester credit hours) Examines the anti-hero in the novel, poetry, and drama (including film and television). (3-0) RLIT 6308 Studies in Literary Forms and Genres (3 semester credit hours) Studies in various literary genres, either individually or in relation to each other. Among topics considered will be the difficulties of defining genres, the nature of specific genres, their historical and aesthetic development, and their artistic possibilities. Genres for discussion may include tragedy, comedy, the novel, and various forms of poetic expression. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) YLIT 6309 Studies in Literary Movements (3 semester credit hours) Examination of the nature of intellectual and artistic movements, with emphasis on how they affect literary expression. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) TLIT 6310 Studies in Literary Interpretation (3 semester credit hours) Study of the issues involved in the attempt to interpret dramatic, poetic, and fictional texts. Emphasis will be placed on the writing of interpretive essays and on the exploration of how various cultural and intellectual perspectives as well as different theoretical stances affect the reading of a specific text. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (6 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) TLIT 6312 Major Authors (3 semester credit hours) Study of one or more major literary figures, such as Dante, Chaucer, Milton, Cervantes, Goethe, Blake, Balzac, Dostoevsky, Tolstoy, Mann, Eliot, Pound, Woolf, Faulkner, Paz, or Borges. May be repeated for credit as subjects vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) YLIT 6313 Shakespeare (3 semester credit hours) Study of the dramatic and/or poetic writings of William Shakespeare. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (6 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) RLIT 6315 Literary Theory (3 semester credit hours) Examination of currents and debates in contemporary literary theory. (3-0) YLIT 6316 Critical Theory: Major Schools (3 semester credit hours) Introduction to the major schools of critical theory. (3-0) RLIT 6317 Cultural Studies (3 semester credit hours) Introduction to the theory and practice of cultural studies. (3-0) RLIT 6318 Visual Culture (3 semester credit hours) Introduction to the ideas, principles, and practices related to the cultural study of the visual; development of skills for observing, analyzing, describing, and critiquing the relationship between textuality and visuality from a range of theoretical perspectives. (3-0) RLIT 6320 Poetry Workshop (3 semester credit hours) A workshop developing advanced creative techniques and processes necessary for producing effective poems. Instructor consent required. May be repeated for credit (12 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) YLIT 6321 Fiction Workshop (3 semester credit hours) A workshop developing advanced creative techniques and processes necessary to producing effective short stories. May be repeated for credit (12 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) YLIT 6322 (VPAS 6352) Creating Television and Movie Scripts (3 semester credit hours) A workshop developing techniques and processes necessary for producing movie, multimedia, video, and television scripts. May be repeated for credit (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) RLIT 6323 (VPAS 6353) Creating Plays and Musicals (3 semester credit hours) A workshop developing creative techniques and processes necessary for producing plays and musicals. May be repeated for credit (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) RLIT 6325 Nonfiction Workshop (3 semester credit hours) A workshop developing advanced techniques and processes necessary for producing effective nonfiction. May be repeated for credit (12 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) TLIT 6330 Studies in Literature and the Other Arts (3 semester credit hours) Examination of literature and its relationship to the visual and/or performing arts. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) TLIT 6340 Studies in Ancient and Early Modern Literature (3 semester credit hours) Examination of the literature and culture of selected periods in the Western tradition. May focus on ancient, medieval, or early modern periods. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) RLIT 6345 Early American Literature (3 semester credit hours) Study of literary works written in and about America from the early 1500s to 1800. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (6 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) TLIT 6346 American Renaissance (3 semester credit hours) Study of the authors whose work first defined nineteenth-century American literary studies: Melville, Hawthorne, Whitman, Emerson, and Thoreau; consideration of the challenges to that initial canon as well as the writers that the canon excluded (Stowe, Douglass, Jacobs, and others). (3-0) TLIT 6348 Women in Early Modern Literature (3 semester credit hours) Study of the representation of women in literature of the early modern period (1500-1700). (3-0) RLIT 6350 Studies in Nineteenth-Century Literature (3 semester credit hours) Examination of the literatures and cultures of the nineteenth century. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) TLIT 6355 Studies in Literature, Science, and Culture (3 semester credit hours) Examination of the treatment of scientific concepts (e.g., relativity, evolution) and technological developments (e.g., computers, virtual reality) in literature. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (6 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) TLIT 6360 Literature of the Twentieth Century (3 semester credit hours) Examination of the literatures and cultures of the twentieth century. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) TLIT 6370 Studies in Literature and Ideas (3 semester credit hours) Examination of the relationship between selected literary texts and major ideas in philosophy, science, and politics; examination of systems of thoughts as they are incorporated, delineated, and explored in literature. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (6 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) TLIT 6372 Studies in Literature and Society (3 semester credit hours) Examination of the values and concerns of various social groups through a study of literary texts; consideration of the role of literature and the writer in given societies. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) TLIT 6373 Topics in Latin American Literature (3 semester credit hours) Studies in the literatures and cultures of Latin America. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) TLIT 6374 Modern Jewish Literature across Cultures (3 semester credit hours) Study of modern Jewish literatures in multiple national contexts and languages, with emphasis on the interaction between modernity and vision of Jewish identities and traditions. (3-0) TLIT 6375 German Literature and Ideas 1870-1960 (3 semester credit hours) Study of the range and diversity of German-Austrian literature and thought from the end of the nineteenth century through the 1960s. (3-0) TLIT 6376 Literature of Weimar Germany (3 semester credit hours) Study of literature written during the Weimar Republic (1918-1933) with attention to formative influences on and cultural-political forces shaping the artistic imagination. (3-0) TLIT 6378 Literature and the Holocaust (3 semester credit hours) Study of major literary works (novels, short stories, and poems) written under the impact of the Holocaust as well as literary theories responding to these texts. Some emphasis placed on films and other works of visual art. (3-0) TLIT 6380 Translation Workshop (3 semester credit hours) A workshop designed to provide students with a model not only of literary interpretation but also of an interdisciplinary approach to literature through the act of translation. Emphasis is on the translation of literary texts into English. Issues involved in this process will form the basis of the workshop's theoretical component. May be repeated for credit (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) YLIT 6381 Critical Approaches to Translation (3 semester credit hours) Study of the various approaches to the history, theory, and criticism of literary and humanistic translation. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (6 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) RLIT 6384 Digital and Visual Rhetorics (3 semester credit hours) Covers a wide range of topics addressing the study of visual rhetoric as well as rhetoric in digital environments. Course also emphasizes the relationship of digital and visual rhetorics to media ecology/media studies as well as the implications of these rhetorics for composition pedagogy. (3-0) RLIT 6385 Rhetorical Theory (3 semester credit hours) A historical survey of Western rhetorical theory focusing on major figures. (3-0) TLIT 6386 Special Topics in Rhetoric (3 semester credit hours) A course in the study of rhetoric. May include one or more topics such as ethos, histories of rhetoric, the rhetoric of technology and science, the Sophists, rhetoric as epistemic, key figures in rhetoric (e.g., Burke, Foucault, Baudrillard, Spivak, etc.). May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) RLIT 6392 Topics in Literary Studies (3 semester credit hours) May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) RLIT 6395 Independent Study (3 semester credit hours) Independent study course that may count toward minimum course requirements for the MA degree. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. (3-0) RLIT 6396 Spanish Language, Literature, and Culture (3 semester credit hours) Studies in the language, various literary movements, or the general cultures of Spanish-speaking peoples in Europe or Latin America. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) RLIT 6398 Studies in World Literature (3 semester credit hours) Studies in literatures from specific regions, ethnic groups, and nationalities within and outside the United States. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). (3-0) RLIT 7300 Writing Workshop (3 semester credit hours) A workshop developing advanced techniques and processes necessary for producing publishable scholarly writing in the discipline of literary studies. Prerequisite: LIT 6300 or instructor consent required. (3-0) YLIT 7308 Advanced Studies in Literary Forms and Genres (3 semester credit hours) Advanced studies in various literary genres, either individually or in relation to each other. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisite or Corequisite: LIT 6300 or instructor consent required. (3-0) TLIT 7309 Seminar in Literary Movements (3 semester credit hours) Advanced studies in the nature of intellectual and artistic movements, with emphasis on how they affect literary expression. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisite or Corequisite: LIT 6300 or instructor consent required. (3-0) RLIT 7322 Advanced Translation Workshop (3 semester credit hours) An intensive investigation in a workshop environment of the aesthetics of the art and craft of literary translation focusing on the techniques and processes involved in producing English translations of poetic, dramatic, fictional, and essayistic works. Students are expected to produce publishable translations. Discussions will include the history and theory of literary translation. Prerequisite: LIT 6380 or instructor consent required. (3-0) RLIT 7340 Seminar in Ancient and Early Modern Literature (3 semester credit hours) Advanced studies in the literature and culture of selected periods in the Western tradition. May focus on ancient, medieval, or early modern periods. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisite or Corequisite: LIT 6300 or instructor consent required. (3-0) TLIT 7349 Advanced Topics in Creative Writing (3 semester credit hours) Advanced workshop investigating the theory, aesthetics, and creation of creative writing. The course may focus on poetry, short stories, scripts, or other genres. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (6 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. (3-0) RLIT 7350 Seminar in Nineteenth-Century Literature (3 semester credit hours) Advanced studies in the literature and cultures of the nineteenth century. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisite or Corequisite: LIT 6300 or instructor consent required. (3-0) TLIT 7360 Seminar in Twentieth-Century Literature (3 semester credit hours) Advanced studies in the literatures and cultures of the twentieth century. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisite or Corequisite: LIT 6300 or instructor consent required. (3-0) TLIT 7372 Seminar in Literature and Society (3 semester credit hours) Advanced studies of the values and concerns of various social groups through the analysis of literary texts; consideration of the role of literature and the writer in given societies. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). Prerequisite or Corequisite: LIT 6300 or instructor consent required. (3-0) TLIT 7383 Teaching First-Year Writing (3 semester credit hours) Covers both the methods of teaching first-year writing and pedagogical theories of modern composition. Enrollment required for teaching assistants assigned to sections of Rhetoric 1302, but not limited to such students. Instructor consent required. (3-0) YLIT 7390 Independent Study (3 semester credit hours) Independent study course that may count toward minimum course requirements for the Ph.D. degree. May be repeated for credit (9 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. (3-0) RLIT 7391 Seminar in Translation Studies (3 semester credit hours) The investigation of the field of Translation Studies. Topics may include the anthropological foundation of translation; the study of crossing cultural barriers; translation methodologies as a model for interdisciplinary research; communication as translation; translation and reading; historical aspects of translation; models of cultural differences; critical approaches to the theories of translation from the Greeks to the present; and specific research and translation projects. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. Prerequisite or Corequisite: LIT 6300 or LIT 6380. (3-0) RLIT 8303 Independent Readings in Literature (3 semester credit hours) Pass/Fail only. May be repeated for credit (15 semester credit hours maximum). Instructor consent required. (3-0) RLIT 8305 Field Exam Preparation (3 semester credit hours) Independent study course for the preparation of field examinations. Pass/Fail only. May be repeated for credit (18 semester credit hours maximum or fewer depending on the individual student's degree plan). Instructor consent required. (3-0) RLIT 8V01 Dissertation Proposal (3-9 semester credit hours) Independent study course for the preparation of the dissertation proposal. Pass/Fail only. May be repeated for credit (18 semester credit hours maximum or fewer depending on the individual student's degree plan). Instructor consent required. ([3-9]-0) RLIT 8V99 Dissertation (1-9 semester credit hours) Pass/Fail only. May be repeated for credit. Instructor consent required. ([1-9]-0) Rbugz












2020 Graduate Catalog

General Information

About the 2020 Catalog
About UT Dallas
University Officers

President
President's Cabinet
Administrative Officers/Deans

UT System Regents
Contact Information
Faculty Roster
Search 2020 Graduate Catalog

Graduate Programs

Arts and Humanities

About Arts and Humanities
Art History

Art History Program
Art History (MA)

History

History Program
History (MA)

History of Ideas

History of Ideas Program
History of Ideas (MA)
History of Ideas (PhD)

Humanities

Humanities Program
Humanities (MA)
Humanities (PhD)
Certificate in Holocaust Studies

Latin American Studies

Latin American Studies Program
Latin American Studies (MA)

Literature

Literature Program
Literature (MA)
Literature (PhD)

Visual and Performing Arts

Visual and Performing Arts Program
Visual and Performing Arts (MA)
Visual and Performing Arts (PhD)

ARHM Certificates

Certificate in Holocaust Studies


Arts, Technology, and Emerging Communication

About Arts, Technology, and Emerging Communication
Master of Arts in ATEC (MA)

Arts, Technology, and Emerging Communication - Interaction Design (MA)
Arts, Technology, and Emerging Communication - Emerging Media Studies (MA)

Master of Fine Arts in ATEC (MFA)

Arts, Technology, and Emerging Communication - Animation (MFA)
Arts, Technology, and Emerging Communication - Creative Practice (MFA)
Arts, Technology, and Emerging Communication - Game Development (MFA)

Doctor of Philosophy in ATEC (PhD)

Behavioral and Brain Sciences

About Behavioral and Brain Sciences
BBS Doctoral Programs
Neuroscience

Applied Cognition and Neuroscience (MS)

Human Development and Early Childhood Disorders

Human Development and Early Childhood Disorders (MS)

Psychology

Psychology (MS)

Speech, Language and Hearing Sciences

Speech-Language Pathology (MS)
Audiology (AuD)


Economic, Political and Policy Sciences

About Economic, Political and Policy Sciences
Criminology

Criminology (PhD)
Criminology (MS)
Justice Administration and Leadership (MS)

Economics

Economics (PhD)
Economics (MS)

Geospatial Information Sciences

Geospatial Information Sciences (PhD)
Geospatial Information Sciences (MS)

Political Science

Political Science (PhD)
Political Science (MA)

Political Science (MA)
Political Science (MA) - Law and Courts Concentration
Political Science (MA) - Legislative Studies Concentration


Public Affairs

Public Affairs (PhD)
Public Affairs (MPA)

Public Policy and Political Economy

Public Policy and Political Economy (PhD)
Cyber Security, Technology, and Policy (MS)
International Political Economy (MS)
International Political Economy Dual Degree (MS)
Master of Public Policy (MPP)

Social Data Analytics And Research

Social Data Analytics And Research (MS)

Sociology

Applied Sociology (MS)

EPPS Certificate Programs

About EPPS Certificate Programs
Certificate in Economic and Demographic Data Analysis
Certificate in Geographic Information Systems (GIS)
Certificate in Geospatial Intelligence (GeoInt)
Certificate in Local Government Management
Certificate in Nonprofit Management
Certificate in Program Evaluation
Certificate in Remote Sensing


Engineering and Computer Science

About Engineering and Computer Science
Bioengineering

Department of Bioengineering
Biomedical Engineering (MS)
Biomedical Engineering (PhD)

Computer Engineering

Computer Engineering Program
Computer Engineering (MS)
Computer Engineering (PhD)

Computer Science

Department of Computer Science
Computer Science (MS)
Computer Science (PhD)
Certificate in Information Assurance

Electrical Engineering

Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Electrical Engineering (MS)
Electrical Engineering (PhD)

Materials Science and Engineering

Department of Materials Science and Engineering
Materials Science and Engineering (MS)
Materials Science and Engineering (PhD)

Mechanical Engineering

Department of Mechanical Engineering
Mechanical Engineering (MS)
Mechanical Engineering (PhD)

Software Engineering

Department of Computer Science
Software Engineering (MS)
Software Engineering (PhD)
Executive Masters of Science in Software Engineering

Systems Engineering

Department of Systems Engineering
Systems Engineering and Management (MS-SEM)
Executive Masters in Systems Engineering and Management

Telecommunications Engineering

Telecommunications Engineering Program
Telecommunications Engineering (MS)
Telecommunications Engineering (PhD)

Engineering and Management Graduate Degrees

Engineering and Management Graduate Degrees
Engineering and Management Graduate Degrees (MSEE+MBA)
Engineering and Management Graduate Degrees (MSEE+MS)
Systems Engineering and Management (MS-SEM)
Double MS‐SEM/MBA
Executive Master’s in Systems Engineering and Management
Executive Education Double MSSEM/MBA Degrees

Geospatial Information Sciences

Geospatial Information Sciences (PhD)

Industrial Practice Programs

Industrial Practice Programs (IPP)

ECS Certificate Programs

Certificate in Cybersecurity Systems
Certificate in Information Assurance
Certificates in Systems Engineering or Systems Management
Executive Education Certificates in Systems Engineering or Systems Management


Interdisciplinary Studies

About Interdisciplinary Studies
Post-Baccalaureate Program for Teacher Certification

Jindal School of Management

About Jindal School of Management
Accounting (MS)
Business Administration (MBA)
Business Analytics (MS)
Energy Management (MS)
Finance (MS)
Financial Technology and Analytics (MS)
Healthcare Leadership and Management

Healthcare Leadership and Management (MS)
Healthcare Leadership and Management - Certificate Programs

Information Technology and Management (MS)
Innovation and Entrepreneurship (MS)
International Management Studies (MS)
Management Science (MS)
Marketing (MS)
Supply Chain Management (MS)
Systems Engineering and Management (MS)

Systems Engineering and Management (MS-SEM)
Certificates in Systems Engineering or Systems Management
Double MS-SEM/MBA
Executive Masters in Systems Engineering and Management

Engineering and Management Graduate Degrees (MSEE+MBA/MS/MA)
JSOM Doctoral Programs

International Management Studies (PhD)
Management Science (PhD)

Executive Education Programs

About Executive Education Programs
Executive MBA (EMBA)
Global Leadership MBA (GLEMBA)
Project Management (Cert/MS/EMBA)
Supply Chain Management (Cert/MS/EMBA)
Healthcare Leadership and Management

Healthcare Leadership and Management (MS)
Healthcare Leadership and Management Executive MBA (MS/EMBA)
Healthcare Leadership and Management for Healthcare Professionals (MS)
Healthcare Leadership and Management Executive MBA for Healthcare Professionals (MS/EMBA)

Organizational Behavior and Coaching (Cert/MS)
Executive and Professional Coaching (Cert)
Systems Engineering and Management (MS-SEM/Cert)
Double MS-SEM/MBA Degree (MS-SEM+GLEMBA)

JSOM Certificate Programs

Business Intelligence and Data Mining Certificate
Corporate Innovation Certificate
Cybersecurity Systems Certificate
Enterprise Systems Certificate
Executive and Professional Coaching Certificate
Healthcare Information Technology Certificate
Lean 6 Sigma Green Belt in Healthcare Management Certificate
Lean 6 Sigma Yellow Belt in Healthcare Management Certificate
Negotiation and Mediation Certificate
New Venture Entrepreneurship Certificate
Organizational Consulting Certificate
Product Lifecycle/Supply Chain Management Certificate
Project Management Certificate
Research Foundations in Accounting Certificate
Strategic Human Resources (HR) Certificate
Systems Engineering or Systems Management Certificates
Executive Education Certificates in Systems Engineering or Systems Management
Transformational Leadership Certificate


Natural Sciences and Mathematics

About Natural Sciences and Mathematics
Biological Sciences

Department of Biological Sciences
Biotechnology (MS)
Molecular and Cell Biology (MS)
Bioinformatics and Computational Biology (MS)
Molecular and Cell Biology (PhD)

Chemistry and Biochemistry

Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry
Chemistry (MS)
Chemistry (PhD)

Geosciences

Department of Geosciences
Geosciences (MS)
Geospatial Information Sciences (MS)
Geosciences (PhD)
Geospatial Information Sciences (PhD)

Mathematical Sciences

Department of Mathematical Sciences
Mathematics (MS)
Statistics (MS)
Actuarial Science (MS)
Bioinformatics and Computational Biology (MS)
Mathematics (PhD)
Statistics (PhD)

Physics

Department of Physics
Physics (MS)
Physics (PhD)

Science and Mathematics Education

Science and Mathematics Education (MA)

Interdisciplinary Programs

Bioinformatics and Computational Biology (MS)
Geospatial Information Sciences (MS)
Geospatial Information Sciences (PhD)


Teacher Education Certification

Graduate Courses

Graduate Courses by Subject
Graduate Courses by School

Graduate Admission

About Admission
Admission Requirements
Admission Requirements Documentation
Special Admission Requirements
Application Fees and Deadlines

Tuition and Financial Aid

About Tuition and Financial Aid
Academic Common Market
Refund of Tuition and Fees
Other User Fees
Financial Aid
Types of Financial Aid

Policies and Procedures

List of Academic Policies and Procedures
Registration and Enrollment

Registration and Enrollment Requirements
Orientation
Academic Good Standing
Continuous Enrollment
Registration Dates
Schedule Changes - Dropping, Adding and Withdrawing From Courses
Registration Fees
Leave of Absence
Withdrawal (Resignation) from the University
Readmission

Cooperative Arrangements

Cooperative Arrangements
Concurrent Enrollment at Other Public Institutions
The University of Texas System
Visiting Student Program
Texas A&M University System

Course Policies

Auditing Courses
Course Numbering System
Course Offerings
Frequency of Course Offerings
Course Load
Repeating Coursework
Final Examinations

Fast Track

Fast Track Option
Program Requirements
Choice of Graduate Degree and Cross-Tracking
Choice of Graduate Courses
Transition to MA Program After BA Degree
Official Transcription

Grades

Grades and Grade Point Average
Incomplete Grade
Grade Changes
Pass/Fail Grading

Military Service

Military Service Activation Interruption of Education

Remain Enrolled and Complete Coursework Following Brief Military Service
Withdraw, Receive Incomplete Grade, or Receive Final Grade
Readmission Following Military Service

Delayed Disbursements From the VA Under Chapter 31 or 33

Undergraduate Registration for Graduate Courses

Undergraduate Registration
Applied Toward an Undergraduate Degree
Possible Future Use as Graduate Credit

Other Policies

Academic Record and Official Transcription
Change of Address, Email, or Name
Copyrighted Material
Correspondence - Email
Criminal Background Check
Emergency Response, Fire Safety, and Security
FERPA
Hazing
International Travel, Policies and Services
Making a False Alarm or Report
Religious Holy Days
Student-Right-To-Know and Campus Security Act (Clery Act)
Student Travel Policy
Use of Facilities

Graduate Degree Program Policies and Procedures

List of Graduate Degree Program Policies and Procedures
Graduate Degree Program Policies

Program of Studies/Degree Plan
Milestones Agreement Form
Change of Program
Transfer of Credit
General Degree Requirements
Required Semester Credit Hours
Required Grade Point Average
Registration Requirements
Time Limits
Additional Master's Degrees
Supervising Committee for Thesis and Dissertation
Master's Thesis
Admission to Doctoral Candidacy
Doctoral Dissertation
Final Oral Examination for Doctoral Candidates
Required Copies of Dissertation and Thesis
Intellectual Property Rights

Graduation Requirements

Graduation Under a Particular Catalog
Application for Graduation
Graduation under In Absentia Registration
Commencement Ceremonies


Policy on Procedures for Completing a Graduate Degree
Addedum

University Resources

List of Resources
General Resources
Health Resources
International Resources
Student Complaint Resources







The University of Texas at DallasUT Dallas ProvostCourseBookContact the Provost's Technology Group






(null clip target)













