


Disciplinary Actions (Print Version)









UT Dallas 2013 Undergraduate Catalog
Undergraduate Policies and Procedures
Disciplinary Actions
Academic Good Standing
Students at UT Dallas are expected to maintain a grade point average ("GPA") of at least 2.000 on a 4.000 scale, which equates to a C average. Additionally, students are expected to maintain a GPA of 2.000 in their major-related courses to remain in Academic Good Standing.
Disciplinary Status Overview
UT Dallas maintains academic disciplinary policies to encourage students to make the necessary academic and life changes to succeed. Students (including those who seek second baccalaureate degrees or post-baccalaureate non-degrees) who fail to meet the minimum expectations of Academic Good Standing must meet more stringent standards and regularly consult with academic advisors.
a. Disciplinary Policy for First-Degree Seeking Students
The disciplinary policy provides a student with several opportunities to make the necessary adjustments prior to a final dismissal from UT Dallas.
UT Dallas Disciplinary Status:

Academic Probation
Academic Warning
First Academic Suspension (One Semester)
Second Academic Suspension (One Year)
Final Dismissal

b. Disciplinary Policy for Second Baccalaureate Degrees or Post-Baccalaureate Non-Degree Seeking Students
Students who earned an undergraduate degree at UT Dallas or another institution of higher education and are enrolled at UT Dallas are subject to the provisions of this policy, except that they may only be placed on the following disciplinary statuses:

Academic Probation
Academic Warning
Final Dismissal

Each Disciplinary Status will be indicated on the student's academic record.
Academic Probation
If a student's cumulative GPA falls below a 2.000, the student will be placed on Academic Probation. Academic Probation will be indicated on the student's academic record.
Academic Probation is designed to help students make the required adjustments to achieve success and a degree at UT Dallas. These adjustments will vary based upon the individual circumstances of each student, but should be taken seriously.
If a student is placed on Academic Probation, the student will be required to follow certain protocols and meet higher academic standards. These protocols and standards are designed to bring the student back to Academic Good Standing and allow the student to meet graduation requirements.
A student on Academic Probation is required to meet the following Academic Probation Requirements for the semester:
Academic Probation Requirements:

Earn a minimum semester GPA of 2.200.
May not withdraw or request an incomplete from a class.
Meet with your School academic advisor prior to registration.
Retake all required Major and University Core Courses failed the previous semester.1
Register for a maximum of 15 semester credit hours.2
Maintain satisfactory progress towards graduation.
For students with less than 60 UT Dallas earned credit hours:

(a) Meet with a Student Outreach and Academic Retention (SOAR) office advisor.
(b) Follow the SOAR advising plan developed with the advisor.

If a student on Academic Probation meets the Academic Probation Requirements but fails to achieve a cumulative GPA of 2.000, the student will remain on Academic Probation and must continue to comply with all Academic Probation Requirements. 
If at any time, a student's cumulative GPA meets the minimum requirements of 2.000 overall the student will regain Academic Good Standing. A student's cumulative GPA is only affected by UT Dallas coursework. Coursework at another institution cannot be used to return a student to Academic Good Standing.
1. The Associate Dean of the student's school reserves the right to alter this requirement on a case-by-case basis. 
2. The Associate Dean of the student's school reserves the right to alter this requirement on a case-by-case basis. If a student has registered for more than 15 semester credit hours prior to his or her placement on Academic Probation, the student's schedule must be reduced to a maximum of 15 hours. The student is required to meet with his or her School academic advisor to find an appropriate adjustment to the student's academic schedule.
Academic Warning
A student will be placed on Academic Warning for failure to meet the Academic Probation Requirements. A student on Academic Warning is also required to meet the Academic Probation Requirements as listed below:
Academic Warning Requirements:

Earn a minimum semester GPA of 2.200.
May not withdraw or request an incomplete from a class.
Meet with your School academic advisor prior to registration.
Retake all required Major and University Core Courses failed the previous semester.3
Register for a maximum of 15 semester credit hours.4
Maintain satisfactory progress towards graduation.
For students with less than 60 UT Dallas earned credit hours:

(a) Meet with a Student Outreach and Academic Retention (SOAR) office advisor.
(b) Follow the SOAR advising plan developed with the advisor.

Academic Warning should be a wake-up call for students who have not been able to make the adjustments required of students on Academic Probation. If a student is placed on Academic Warning, the student should consider dramatic alterations in all of the circumstances that affect his or her academic progress. The student should increase the volume of work with the SOAR advisor and meet with his or her Faculty Mentors or Associate Dean to determine an academic path to success.
If the student meets the Academic Warning Requirements, the student will return to Academic Probation. If the student again fails to meet the Academic Probation Requirements while on Academic Warning, the student will be suspended.
When placed on suspension, it is the student's responsibility to submit required documents to meet the readmission requirements for re-entry. Readmission is not guaranteed.
If at any time, a student's cumulative GPA meets the minimum requirements of 2.000 overall the student will regain Academic Good Standing. A student's cumulative GPA is only affected by UT Dallas coursework. Coursework at another institution cannot be used to return a student to Academic Good Standing.
3.  The Associate Dean of the student's school reserves the right to alter this requirement on a case-by-case basis. 
4.  The Associate Dean of the student's school reserves the right to alter this requirement on a case-by-case basis. If a student has registered for more than 15 semester credit hours prior to his or her placement on Academic Probation, the student's schedule must be reduced to a maximum of 15 hours. The student is required to meet with his or her School academic advisor to find an appropriate adjustment to the student's academic schedule. 
Academic Departure
First-degree seeking students who leave the University on Academic Probation or Academic Warning may be readmitted with the same status, even if they have attended another institution in the interim. Performance at another institution will be a factor in the readmission decision.
Academic Suspension
First-degree seeking students are automatically placed on Academic Suspension for failure to meet the Academic Probation Requirements while on Academic Warning.  Second baccalaureate degree-seeking or post-baccalaureate non-degree seeking students shall be subject to final dismissal for failure to meet the Academic Probation Requirements while on Academic Warning.
First-degree seeking students on Academic Suspension may not enroll in, audit, or visit a class unless readmitted as described below. Students who have already pre-registered for classes will automatically be dropped from all classes. Notice of Academic Suspension will show on the student's academic record.
Length of Academic Suspension

A student's First Academic Suspension will be for a period of one long semester.
A student's Second Academic Suspension will be for a period of one year (12 months).
A student's third Academic Suspension is Final Dismissal from UT Dallas without a possible readmission.

Readmission
A student, who has been placed on suspension, must complete the Undergraduate Academic Suspension Readmission Petition Form for readmission. It is the student's responsibility to submit required documents to meet the readmission requirements for re-entry. Readmission is not guaranteed.
A student placed on One Long Semester Academic Suspension must petition to his or her Associate Dean for readmission. If the student has not declared a major or is a non-degree seeking student, the student must petition the Dean of Undergraduate Education.
A student placed on One Year Academic Suspension must petition to his or her Associate Dean for readmission. The Dean of Undergraduate Education must approve the readmission of all students placed on One Year Academic Suspension.
A student that is readmitted may be subject to additional probationary conditions placed upon them by the Associate Dean or Dean of Undergraduate Education. Such additional probationary conditions may be individual to the student and his or her academic circumstances, but will be designed to encourage the student to reach Academic Good Standing and be eligible for Graduation.
A student who reenters the University after Academic Suspension will reenter on Academic Warning.
Changing Majors
A student may find that his or her interests and skills are better suited to a different academic discipline. If a student has been placed on Academic Suspension and wishes to select a different academic discipline, the student must first complete the "Undergraduate Change of Major Form" prior to petitioning for readmission. If the Change of Major is approved, the student must petition to the new Associate Dean for readmission.
Updated: 2019-08-09 13:10:46 v2.500c2a




