



School of Economic, Political and Policy Sciences - UT Dallas 2022 Undergraduate Catalog - The University of Texas at Dallas































Jump to content
Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Catalog Home 
Undergraduate Catalogs 


2022 Undergraduate Catalog2021 Undergraduate Catalog2020 Undergraduate Catalog2019 Undergraduate Catalog2018 Undergraduate Catalog2017 Undergraduate Catalog2016 Undergraduate Catalog


 
Graduate Catalogs 


2022 Graduate Catalog2021 Graduate Catalog2020 Graduate Catalog2019 Graduate Catalog2018 Graduate Catalog2017 Graduate Catalog2016 Graduate Catalog









UT Dallas 2022 Undergraduate Catalog
School of Economic, Political and Policy Sciences
As a collective of several disciplines, social science is the study of institutions, organizations and behavior. Social scientists ask such questions as: What roles do government, law and politics play in our society? How can public and nonprofit organizations be effectively managed? How are groups formed? How do people produce and distribute goods? Why do cities grow, and why do some cities decay? What are the causes of war, racial discrimination, and revolutions? How can we improve organizational capability in leadership and ethical decision making? Social science uses rigorous methodologies to apply ideas and theories to the real world. Degrees in the social sciences provide students with the tools of critical thinking that allow them to work and succeed in business, government, and not-for-profit organizations.
The School of Economic, Politics and Policy Sciences offers undergraduate degrees in Criminology, Economics, Geospatial Information Sciences, International Political Economy, Political Science, Public Affairs, Public Policy, and Sociology. Each degree offers a large number of elective semester credit hours that allow students to direct their educational focus. Careers building on social science degrees include law, public service, nonprofit management, finance, banking, criminal justice, human resource management, teaching, market research and analysis, urban planning, and counseling to name a few.
 
Programs and General Courses
The School of Economic, Political and Policy Sciences has seven degree granting programs: Criminology, Economics, Geospatial Information Sciences, International Political Economy, Political Science, Public Affairs, Public Policy, and Sociology. Within each of these programs, students may specialize in areas that complement their interests and career plans, such as, political economy, law and society, and comparative studies. Students should also note that many courses listed under Interdisciplinary Studies (ISSS) and Social Sciences (SOCS) apply within their major.
 
Minor Areas of Study
The School of Economic, Political and Policy Sciences offers minors in Criminology; Economics; Geography; Geospatial Information Sciences; International Political Economy; Political Science; Public Affairs; Public Health; Public Policy; Science, Technology, and Policy; and Sociology. Students must take a minimum of 18 semester credit hours for the minor, 12 of which must be upper-division semester credit hours. Students who take a minor will be expected to meet the normal prerequisites in courses making up the minor, and should maintain a minimum GPA of 2.000 on a 4.00 scale (C average). The School of Economic, Political and Policy Sciences requires that a minimum of 12 of the 18 semester credit hours for a minor be taken at UT Dallas.
Students may choose to minor in any of the following fields of study:

Criminology
Economics
Geography
Geospatial Information Sciences
International Political Economy
Political Science
Public Affairs
Public Health
Public Policy
Science, Technology, and Policy
Sociology

 
Social Studies Teacher Certification
Teacher certification is offered in Composite Social Studies, Economics, Geography, Government, and History. Specific course requirements are available in the Teacher Development Center.
 
Economic, Political and Policy Sciences Core Requirements
All undergraduates receiving degrees in the School of Economic, Political and Policy Sciences must have taken and passed a core of courses designed to provide breadth and an interdisciplinary perspective beyond any individual social science discipline. These courses include:
Three semester credit hours in economics (normally ECON 2301 or ECON 2302)
Three semester credit hours in sociology (normally SOC 1301)
Three semester credit hours in statistics (normally EPPS 2302)
Three semester credit hours in research design (normally EPPS 2301)
Three semester credit hours in an approved course satisfying the writing requirement (normally COMM 1311)
 
Internship and Independent Study Policy
The total number of independent study and internship semester credit hours are limited to nine total semester credit hours with the exception of extenuating circumstances to be approved by the Associate Dean for Undergraduate Education.
 
Fast Track Baccalaureate/Master's Degrees
Undergraduate EPPS majors with strong academic records who are interested in pursuing a Master's degree may apply for a Fast Track plan of study that involves taking graduate courses in lieu of several advanced undergraduate courses. Eligible students may take up to 15 semester credit hours of selected graduate courses that may be used to complete the baccalaureate degree and also satisfy requirements for the master's degree. All Fast Track students are expected to maintain at least a 3.0 GPA and earn a B or better in graduate classes. Interested students should contact their academic advisor during their junior year to apply to the Fast Track program.
 
Economic, Political and Policy Sciences Honors Program
The School Honors Program in the School of EPPS provides eligible students with the opportunity for recognition at the Program level for outstanding scholarly performance in degree programs within the School. In order to earn EPPS honors, a student must:

graduate with an overall GPA of 3.500 or higher
graduate with a GPA of 3.750 or higher in their major program of study
register for three to six Senior Honors semester credit hours with a faculty supervisor or mentor and complete the honors thesis.

The Honors paper must be submitted to a faculty mentor or supervisor at least three weeks prior to the last day of classes for the term. It is then critiqued by the mentor and returned to the student for revisions and must be resubmitted by the last day of classes of the term. At that point, a second reader is asked to evaluate the paper.
Students must apply no later than 30 semester credit hours prior to graduation and no earlier than 60 semester credit hours prior to graduation.
Students should contact an academic advisor for an application.
 
Faculty
FACG> epps-~-ba,epps-~-bsProfessors: Daniel G. Arce @dga071000, R. Paul Battaglio Jr. @rpb071000, Kurt J. Beron @kberon, Brian J. L. Berry @bjb012800, Denise Paquette Boots @dpb062000, Patrick T. Brandt @pxb054000, Thomas L. Brunell @tlb056000, Yongwan Chun @yxc070300, Paul Diehl @pxd153230, Euel W. Elliott @eelliott, Daniel A. Griffith @dag054000, Edward J. Harpham @harpham, Jennifer S. Holmes @jholmes, Bruce A. Jacobs @baj034000, Dohyeong Kim @dxk132530, Dong Li @dxl145430, Robert C. Lowry @rcl062000, Clint W. Peinhardt @cwp052000, Fang Qiu @ffqiu, Meghna Sabharwal @mxs095000, Richard K. Scotch @scotch, Sheryl L. Skaggs @slskaggs, Marianne C. Stewart @mstewart, Donggyu Sul @dxs093000, Robert W. Taylor @rwt092000, Lynne M. Vieraitis @lmv071000, John L. Worrall @jlw064000, May Yuan @mxy141230Associate Professors: Rodney Andrews @rja091000, Jonas Bunte @jbb130330, Anthony R. Cummings @arc131030, Vito D'Orazio @vxd152030, Simon M. Fass @fass, Seth Giertz @sxg154831, Evgenia Gorina @exg131830, James R. Harrington @jxh134630, Tomislav Kovandzic @tvk071000, Sarah Maxwell @spm092000, Susan Williams McElroy @skm028000, Banks P. Miller @bxm093000, Darwin (Trey) Miller @dwm052000, Irina Panovska @ixp190001, Kevin Siqueira @kjs064000, Michael Tiefelsdorf @mrt052000, Victor Valcarcel @vjv150130Assistant Professors: Anne Burton @axb210050, Rebecca Cordell @rxc190010, Brenda Gambol Gavigan @bxg210008, Thomas Gray @txg171430, Michelle Harris @mnh200001, Jonas Hedlund @jxh180030, Andrew Krajewski @axk210064, Yeung Jeom Lee @yxl210021, Maria (Camila) Morales @mcm200006, Allison Russell @axr210032, Lauren Santoro @lar170530, Elizabeth Searing @exs200001Clinical Professors: John R. McCaskill @jrm094020, Elmer Polk @peo091000Visiting Assistant Professor: Amanda Kreuze @axk210112Professors Emeriti: Brian J. L. Berry @bjb012800, Ronald Briggs @briggs, Anthony M. Champagne @tchamp, Paul Diehl @pxd153230, Lloyd J. Dumas @ljdumas, Donald A. Hicks @dahicks, L. Douglas Kiel @dkiel, Murray J. Leaf @mjleaf, Todd Sandler @tms063000Associate Professors of Instruction: Karl K. Ho @kxh022100, Luba Ketsler @lxk010300, Carol Cirulli Lanham @ccl054000Assistant Professors of Instruction: Galen Dickey-Laprocido @gld190001, William Grover @wcg071000
Updated: 2021-08-02 12:09:51 v2.028af8bugz












2022 Undergraduate Catalog

General Information

About the 2022 Catalog
About UT Dallas
University Officers

President
President's Cabinet
Administrative Officers/Deans

UT System Regents
Contact Information
Faculty Roster
Search 2022 Undergraduate Catalog

Undergraduate Programs

Arts and Humanities

About Arts and Humanities
History
Latin American Studies
Literature

Literature
Literature with Creative Writing
Literature with Rhetoric and Communication
Literature with Spanish

Philosophy
Visual and Performing Arts

VPA with Art History
VPA with Communication
VPA with Dance
VPA with Film
VPA with Interdisciplinary Arts
VPA with Music
VPA with Photo-Video-Digital
VPA with Theatre
VPA with Visual Arts

Minors

Arts, Technology, and Emerging Communication

About Arts, Technology, and Emerging Communication
Arts, Technology, and Emerging Communication
ATEC with Animation and Games
ATEC with Critical Media Studies
ATEC with Emerging Media Arts
Minors

Behavioral and Brain Sciences

About Behavioral and Brain Sciences
Child Learning and Development
Cognitive Science
Neuroscience
Psychology
Speech, Language, and Hearing Sciences
Minors

Economic, Political and Policy Sciences

About Economic, Political and Policy Sciences
Criminology

Criminology
Criminology and Biology

Economics

Economics
Economics and Finance

Geospatial Information Sciences
International Political Economy

International Political Economy
International Political Economy and Global Business

Political Science
Public Affairs
Public Policy
Sociology
Minors

Engineering and Computer Science

About Engineering and Computer Science
Biomedical Engineering
Computer Engineering
Computer Science

Computer Science
Data Science

Electrical Engineering
Mechanical Engineering
Software Engineering
Certificates
Minors

Interdisciplinary Studies

About Interdisciplinary Studies
American Studies
Healthcare Studies
Education
Interdisciplinary Studies
Minors

Jindal School of Management

About Jindal School of Management
Accounting
Business Administration

Business Administration
Certificate in Innovation and Entrepreneurship

Business Analytics
Finance

Finance
Finance and Economics

Global Business

Global Business
Global Business and Human Resource Management
Global Business and International Political Economy
Global Business and Marketing
Global Business and Supply Chain Management

Healthcare Management

Healthcare Management
Healthcare Management and Biology
Healthcare Management and Molecular Biology

Human Resource Management

Human Resource Management
Human Resource Management and Global Business

Information Technology and Systems
Marketing

Marketing
Marketing and Global Business

Supply Chain Management

Supply Chain Management
Supply Chain Management and Global Business

Minors

Natural Science and Mathematics

About Natural Science and Mathematics
Biology

Biology
Biology and Criminology
Biology and Healthcare Management
Molecular Biology
Molecular Biology and Healthcare Management

Chemistry and Biochemistry

Biochemistry
Chemistry

Geosciences
Mathematical Sciences

Actuarial Science
Data Science
Mathematics

Physics
Biomedical Sciences (Cert)
Minors
UTeach Options

Teacher Certification
Honors College
Undergraduate Minors

Undergraduate Courses

Undergraduate Courses by Subject
Undergraduate Courses by School

Undergraduate Admission

About Undergrad Admission
Admission Criteria for First-Time in College Freshmen

Automatic Admission
Reviewed Admission

Admission Criteria for Transfer Students

Automatic Admission
Application of Transfer Credit
Transfer Admission Criteria

International Student Admission
Admission Policies

Credit by Examination
Criminal Background Check
Texas Success Initiative (TSI)

Registration Requirements
Legislative Requirements
TSI Provisions
TSI Exemptions

Developmental Education

Developmental Education at UT Dallas
Placement into Developmental Education Courses
Participation and Attendance in Developmental Education


Readmission
Special Admissions
Application Fees and Deadlines

Undergraduate Curriculum

About Curriculum
Core Curriculum
Honors Programs
Other Degree Requirements

Tuition and Financial Aid

About Tuition and Financial Aid
Excessive Undergraduate Hours
Refund of Tuition and Fees
Other User Fees
Financial Aid
Types of Financial Aid

Policies and Procedures

List of Undergraduate Policies
Academic Policies

Academic Advising
Academic Grievances
Academic Progress
Academic Record and Official Transcription
Dean's List
Final Examinations
Grade Changes
Grade Point Average
Grading Scale
Incomplete Grades
Mid-Term Grades
Scholastic Status
Transcripts
Transfer Credit
Transfer Disputes for Lower-Division Courses
Reverse Transfer Transcripts

Admission Policies

Admission Criteria for First-Time in College Freshmen

Automatic Admission
Reviewed Admission

Admission Criteria for Transfer Students

Automatic Admission
Application of Transfer Credit
Transfer Admission Criteria

Credit by Examination
Criminal Background Check
Texas Success Initiative (TSI)

Registration Requirements
Legislative Requirements
TSI Provisions
TSI Exemptions

Developmental Education

Developmental Education at UT Dallas
Placement into Developmental Education Courses
Participation and Attendance in Developmental Education


Course Policies

Course Offerings
Auditing Courses
Course Load
Guidelines for Course Numbering
Course Numbering System
Credit/No Credit Classes
Independent Study
Internship Program
Repeating Coursework

Degree Plans

Degree Plans
Change of Major
Deadlines and Fees
Declaring a Major
Double Major and Double Degree

Disciplinary Actions Associated with Academic Standing

Academic Good Standing
Disciplinary Status Overview
Academic Probation
Academic Warning
Academic Departure
Academic Suspension
Readmission
Changing Majors

Fast Track

Fast Track Option
Program Requirements
Choice of Graduate Degree and Cross-Tracking
Choice of Graduate Courses
Transition to Master’s Program after Bachelor’s Degree
Official Transcription

Graduate Courses

Graduate Courses
Applied Toward an Undergraduate Degree
Possible Future Use as Graduate Credit

Graduation Policies

Timely Graduation
Application for Graduation
Commencement Ceremonies
Graduation with Honors
Graduation Under a Particular Catalog
Graduation Requirements

Registration Policies

Classification of Students
Registration
Registration Dates
In Absentia Registration
Concurrent Enrollment at Other Public Institutions of Higher Education
Cooperative Agreements
Visiting UT System Students Program
Deadlines for Adding or Dropping a Class
Dropping and Withdrawing
Administrative Drop
Drop Appeal Procedures
Non-Academic Withdrawals
Appeal of a Denied Petition for Non-Academic Withdrawal
Repeated Non-Academic Withdrawal
Withdrawal/Resignation from the University
Refunds Following Withdrawal

Military

Military Training Awarded as Academic Course Credit
Military Service Activation Interruption of Education

Remain Enrolled and Complete Coursework Following Brief Military Service
Withdraw, Receive Incomplete Grade, or Receive Final Grade
Automatic Readmission Following Military Service

Delayed Disbursements From the VA Under Chapter 31 or 33

Student Travel

Student Travel Policy
Education Abroad

Policies
Options
Eligibility and Conditions
Financial Information
Transfer Credit and Graduation
International Travel, Policies and Services


Other Policies

Change of Address, Email, or Name
Copyrighted Material
Correspondence - Email
Emergency Response, Fire Safety, and Security
FERPA
Hazing
Making a False Alarm or Report
Religious Holy Days
Student-Right-To-Know and Campus Security Act (Clery Act)
Use of Facilities

Addendum

University Resources

List of Resources
General Resources
Health Resources
International Resources
Professional Resources
Student Complaint Resources







The University of Texas at DallasUT Dallas ProvostCourseBookContact the Provost's Technology Group






(null clip target)













