


Transfer Student Admissions (Print Version)









UT Dallas 2013 Undergraduate Catalog
Undergraduate Admission
Transfer Student Admissions
The Comet Connection Program
Many UT Dallas students transfer from a Texas two-year community college. The Comet Connection Program was specifically created to enable community college transfer students from Texas community colleges to blend their college experiences seamlessly - and without financial penalty. Members of the Comet Connection Program are also offered a Guaranteed Tuition Program and may defer admission up to 12 months after admission. For more information or to receive an updated list of participating community colleges, contact one of our admissions counselors at the Welcome Center at 972-883-2270 or visit www.utdallas.edu/connect.
Transfer Student Admission
The University of Texas at Dallas accepts applications for admission from transfer students for the fall, spring, and summer semesters. UT Dallas welcomes applications from students who have begun their college work and are in good standing at other institutions of higher education. Classifications for admission, which are based on transferable semester credit hours, determine the admission criteria.
The University accepts transfer credit only for academic post-secondary coursework completed with a grade of C (2.000 on a 4.000 point scale) or higher. The University of Texas at Dallas does not offer credit for nonacademic coursework such as vocational, developmental or remedial studies, nor does it grant credit for prior experiential learning. Coursework that is accepted for transfer credit is applicable toward satisfying requirements for a specific UT Dallas major according to the same criteria as those used for equivalent UT Dallas courses (see Appendix II for further information on the transfer of lower-division course credit). Prospective transfer students from Dallas area community colleges should refer to the UT Dallas Transfer Guides, available at the UT Dallas Office of Admission and Enrollment Services, online at www.utdallas.edu/enroll/apply/tguides.php, and at the community college academic advising offices to learn more about curricula appropriate to the various UT Dallas majors.
As soon as an application for admission, transcripts and any required test scores have been received, the Admissions Committee will evaluate the student's record to determine which credits earned at another college or university will transfer to UT Dallas.
The application of transfer credit to degree plans must be completed within the first semester of enrollment. An undergraduate advisor in the student's major, in consultation with the Associate Dean for Undergraduate Education, will determine how the transfer credits apply towards UT Dallas degree requirements. The faculty, acting through the Associate Dean of Undergraduate Education, has the ultimate responsibility for applying transfer credit to their specific major requirements. Students are urged to contact their advising office upon receipt of the letter informing them of their admission to UT Dallas. See also, the section on the Texas Success Initiative at catalog.utdallas.edu/2013/undergraduate/policies/admission-policies#tsi.
Transfer students who begin their semester with 45 or more semester credit hours are required to file a degree plan with UT Dallas no later than the end of the student's regular semester in accordance with Texas Education Code, Section 51.9685, subsection C.
Applicants seeking admission to UT Dallas should be aware that they will need at least 51 upper-division hours to graduate (see "Graduation Requirements" located at catalog.utdallas.edu/2013/undergraduate/policies/graduation#graduation-requirements).
Transfer Admission Criteria
Applicants to UT Dallas who have previously taken college credit courses, beyond high school graduation (excluding the summer following high school graduation), at other institutions of higher education will be reviewed for admission as transfer students. Transfer applicants with a freshman classification (see "Classification of Students") may be required to submit official high school transcripts and SAT/ACT scores as well as all college level coursework.
Transfer students with a sophomore, junior, or senior classification (See "Classification of Students") will be reviewed on their cumulative transfer GPA of post-secondary academic coursework and a review of specific college courses only.
Transfer Students Admitted on Probation
If admitted on probation students must:

See an academic advisor before registering
May not register for more than 15 hours
May not drop from any classes
Must earn a grade of 'C' or better in classes, and
Follow other conditions as prescribed by the admitting Associate Dean

Students admitted on probation must earn a GPA of at least 2.200 for the first semester of enrollment. Failure to meet these conditions will result in suspension. Students admitted on probation who are subsequently suspended from the University may be readmitted only by the Associate Dean (see "Academic Suspension" at catalog.utdallas.edu/2013/undergraduate/policies/disciplinary-actions#readmission).
Updated: 2019-08-09 13:10:41 v2.08804b




