



About the 2015 Graduate Catalog -  - The University of Texas at Dallas































Jump to content
Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Catalog Home 
Undergraduate Catalogs 


2022 Undergraduate Catalog2021 Undergraduate Catalog2020 Undergraduate Catalog2019 Undergraduate Catalog2018 Undergraduate Catalog2017 Undergraduate Catalog2016 Undergraduate Catalog


 
Graduate Catalogs 


2022 Graduate Catalog2021 Graduate Catalog2020 Graduate Catalog2019 Graduate Catalog2018 Graduate Catalog2017 Graduate Catalog2016 Graduate Catalog










2015-2016 Graduate Catalog
About the Graduate Catalog
The University of Texas at Dallas Graduate Online Catalog is a general information publication only. The catalog intends to reflect current academic policies, procedures, degree offerings, course descriptions, and other information pertinent to graduate study at The University of Texas at Dallas. It is not intended to nor does it contain all regulations that relate to students. The provisions of this catalog do not constitute a contract, express or implied, between any applicant, student, or faculty member and The University of Texas at Dallas or The University of Texas System.
The University of Texas at Dallas reserves the right to change the provisions of this catalog at any time, including, but not limited to: withdraw courses at any time, to change fees or tuition, calendar, curriculum, course offerings, degree requirements, graduation procedures, and any other requirements affecting students as necessitated by legislative or regental action. Changes will become effective whenever the proper authorities so determine and will apply to both prospective students and those already enrolled.
The online version of The University of Texas at Dallas Graduate Catalog is the official version. The online catalog will be updated periodically and will contain all major policy changes that occur during the 2015-16 catalog cycle. The official publication date of this catalog is August 2015.
Although this catalog was prepared on the basis of the best information available at the time, and the information is updated regularly, users are cautioned about the following:

Editorial, clerical, and programming errors may have occurred in the publication of this website, and The University of Texas at Dallas assumes no responsibility for such errors.
There is a lag time between approved changes and their publication on this website.
Graduate students can graduate either under the catalog in effect when they enter or the catalog in effect when they complete their degree.

Students are held individually responsible for complying with all requirements of the rules and regulations of the University and the Board of Regents of The University of Texas System. Failure to read and comply with policies, regulations, and procedures will not exempt a student from whatever penalties the student may incur.
Accreditation
The University of Texas at Dallas is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges (SACSCOC) to award baccalaureate, masters, and doctoral degrees. Contact SACSCOC at 1866 Southern Lane, Decatur, Georgia 30033-4097 or call (404) 679-4500 for questions about the accreditation of The University of Texas at Dallas.
Equal Educational Opportunity Statement
The University of Texas at Dallas is committed to providing an educational, living and working environment that is welcoming, respectful and inclusive of all members of the University community. An environment that is free of discrimination and harassment allows members of the University community to excel in their academic and professional careers. To that end, to the extent provided by applicable federal and state law, the University prohibits unlawful discrimination against a person because of their race, color, religion, sex (including pregnancy), national origin, age, disability, genetic information, or veteran status. The University's commitment to equal opportunity extends its nondiscrimination protections to include sexual orientation, gender expression and gender identity.
Catalog Publication Date: June 2015
Updated: 2019-08-09 13:11:11 v13.972c57bugz









The University of Texas at DallasUT Dallas ProvostCourseBookContact the Provost's Technology Group






(null clip target)













