


Teacher Education Certification (Print Version)









UT Dallas 2021 Undergraduate Catalog
Undergraduate Programs
Teacher Education Certification Preparation Programs
UT Dallas offers rigorous university-based teacher certification curricula and enjoys an outstanding reputation for producing excellent teachers.
At UT Dallas, coursework and field experiences leading to teacher certification may be accomplished through either the Teacher Development Center (TDC) program in the School of Interdisciplinary Studies (972-883-2730) or through UTeach Dallas program in the School of Natural Sciences and Mathematics (NS&M) (972-883-2496). In coordination with a student's academic major in other UT Dallas academic programs, students develop the content expertise required in a teaching field such as Early Childhood Education, Literature, History, Mathematics, and Science. Both programs utilize the total resources of the University rather than relying on a school of education. Students interested in pursuing teacher certification through UT Dallas should review program requirements for the TDC and UTeach Dallas. Although each program provides the same curricular content as required by the State Board for Educator Certification (SBEC) and the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board (THECB), the programs are uniquely independent, not interchangeable, and differ in course design and some requirements. Both SBEC and THECB have approved the content and procedures for both programs' curricula.
UT Dallas undergraduate and graduate students may earn their teaching certificates concurrently with their degree studies. Also, through the UTeach Dallas program, undergraduate students can earn a minor in STEM education along with their content degree. Additionally, graduate students may choose to pursue teacher certification without formal degree studies as a non-degree seeking graduate student in the School of Interdisciplinary Studies or in the School of Natural Sciences and Mathematics. The Master of Arts in Teaching programs in Science Education and Mathematics Education have been streamlined to work with UTeach Dallas teacher certification.
After developing a degree plan with their academic major advisor, undergraduate students may apply to the TDC for admission to the teacher certification program. A certification plan will be developed with the student and the TDC advisor. Students enrolling in UTeach Dallas should meet with the UTeach Dallas advisor who also serves as an NS&M academic advisor. Post baccalaureate students seeking their teacher certification may be advised in the TDC or UTeach Dallas.
For those students who wish to pursue a future in the field of Education, UT Dallas offers both a Bachelor's of Arts in Education and a Bachelor's of Science in Education through the School of Interdisciplinary Studies.
Certification Subject Areas
There are two possible tracks to teacher certification at UT Dallas. The TDC offers and supports preparation for teacher certification in numerous teaching fields and grade levels. UTeach Dallas specializes in the preparation and support of secondary mathematics, computer science, and science certifications.
Secondary (Grades 7-12) Certification
Undergraduate students in either certification track must have an academic major and a minimum of 24 semester credit hours of appropriate coursework in their chosen teaching field as well as a reading course (for TDC) in secondary content, and 18 semester credit hours of professional education including clinical teaching. Students may be enrolled in the School of Interdisciplinary Studies, the School of Natural Sciences and Mathematics, or in the school of their academic degree major. All teacher candidates must pass state required TExES examinations in Pedagogy and Professional Responsibilities as well as the content exam for their chosen teaching field prior to clinical teaching. Certification for secondary education is offered in the following content areas/teaching fields:

7-12 English Language Arts and Reading (ELAR)1
7-12 History1
7-12 Social Studies1
8-12 Computer Science1
7-12 Mathematics2
7-12 Chemistry2
7-12 Life Sciences2
6-12 Physical Sciences2
7-12 Science2

Secondary (Grades 4-8) Certification
Undergraduate students in either certification track must have an academic major and a minimum of 24 semester credit hours of appropriate coursework in their chosen teaching field as well as 18 semester credit hours of professional education including clinical teaching. Additionally, students must complete state-required reading content for either certification track (TDC or UTeach Dallas). Students who wish to seek teacher certification in grades 4-8 may choose "4-8 Core Subjects" or select a specialized teaching field. Students may be enrolled in the School of Interdisciplinary Studies, the School of Natural Sciences and Mathematics, or in the school of their academic degree major. All teacher candidates must pass state required TExES examinations in Pedagogy and Professional Responsibilities as well as the content exam for their chosen teaching field prior to clinical teaching. Teacher certification for grades 4-8 is offered in the following content areas/teaching fields:

4-8 Science2
4-8 Mathematics2
4-8 Social Studies1
4-8 English Language Arts and Reading (ELAR)1
4-8 Core Subjects1, 3, 4

Early Childhood - Grade 6 Core Subjects Certification
The "Core Subjects EC-6" teacher certificate may only be earned through the TDC certification track. It is the only certification available to students interested in these grade levels. The TExES content examination for this certification tests for broad-based content mastery. Therefore, students are counseled to work with academic advisors in the School of Interdisciplinary Studies or the School of Brain and Behavioral Sciences if they seek "Core Subjects EC-6" certification. Because most school districts now seek or require EC-6 teachers to have ESL or bilingual supplemental certification, the TDC highly recommends students seeking this certification to prepare for and take the ESL Supplemental TExES examination when certified by TEA.  Students seeking certification in EC-6 Core Subjects must pass the state required TExES examination, the Science of Teaching Reading.
1. Available only through the Teacher Development Center (TDC).
2. Available through the TDC or UTeach Dallas teacher certification tracks.
3. Students seeking certification in 4-8 ELAR or 4-8 Core Subjects must pass the state required TExES examination, The Science of Teaching Reading.
4. Because the 4-8 Core Subjects certificate qualifies a candidate to teach multiple content areas, additional academic coursework is required to prepare candidates for the rigorous broad-based TExES "Generalist 4-8" examination.
All Teaching Fields
All undergraduate students in either certification track must meet the 42-semester credit hour core curriculum for The University of Texas at Dallas.
All students seeking fulfillment of certification requirements through the TDC certification track are required to pass 18 semester credit hours of appropriate professional education courses, including six semester credit hours of full-day clinical teaching. The state of Texas requires specific reading content for each certification level. Candidates must also demonstrate technology literacy, online education literacy, and effective public speaking.
All candidates seeking fulfillment of certification requirements through the UTeach Dallas certification track are required to pass 18 semester credit hours of appropriate professional education courses, including six semester credit hours of full-day clinical teaching. Candidates must also complete Perspectives in Math and Science or an approved equivalent and meet the requirements of the Texas Success Initiative (TAC Title 19, Part 1, Chapter4, Subchapter Rule ยง4.54) to assure college readiness and English proficiency as part of the admission criteria.
Admission
Upon admission to the University, undergraduate students should meet with an academic advisor in their major field to develop their degree plan indicating to the academic advisor they plan to seek teacher certification. NS&M and STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics) undergraduate students seeking teacher certification preparation through UTeach Dallas should meet with the UTeach Dallas academic advisor to prepare their degree plan. Both the TDC and UTeach Dallas require all students to have a 2.750 GPA.
Post-Baccalaureate/Graduate Students
Students with a baccalaureate degree may seek teacher certification. Post-baccalaureate students should consult with a TDC or UTeach Dallas advisor to develop a certification plan after their admission to the University through the Office of Admission and Enrollment. Prior to admission to a post-baccalaureate certification program, students must meet the program standards based on meeting the requirements of the Texas Success Initiative (TAC Title 19, Part 1, Chapter4, Subchapter Rule ยง4.54) or GRE.
Post-baccalaureate students must meet the 24 semester credit hour requirements for their chosen content area and required professional education coursework. A certification plan based on an analysis of the candidate's transcript will be developed. If additional content coursework is necessary, the candidate may take the required courses in their content area at the graduate or undergraduate level. Candidates must demonstrate technology literacy, online education literacy, and effective public speaking. TDC students must complete a total of 12 semester credit hours of English language, composition, and/or literature. All candidates must fulfill requirements for clinical teaching or supervised internship.
Post-Baccalaureate/Graduate Students with Degrees from Another Country
Students with a 4-year baccalaureate and/or graduate degree from another country must have that degree(s) evaluated by a foreign credential evaluator service. Neither UT Dallas nor the TDC nor UTeach Dallas accredit or formally approve credential evaluation services. Students may go to tea.texas.gov/Texas_Educators/Certification/Out-of-State_Certification/Foreign_Credential_Evaluation_Services to find a list of reviewed foreign credential evaluator providers who completed an application affirming they follow the standards of recognized national organizations of foreign credential evaluators. Students must provide official copies of their transcripts to UT Dallas.
Students from non-English speaking countries whose primary language is NOT English are required to take all 4 sections of the TOEFL (the only approved test). Texas Education Agency requires applicants to score a 26 on the Speaking section. To register for TOEFL, please log in to the ETS website www.ets.org.
To be exempt from TOEFL, the primary language of instruction in your university must have been English. Documentation for exemption eligibility must be on official letterhead of the university, stating that their primary language of instruction is English.
Guidelines for Admission to The University of Texas at Dallas Teacher Certification Programs
Guidelines are in compliance with Chapter 227 of the Texas Administrative Code and the HEA Title II accountability requirements.
Students seeking Texas teaching credentials at UT Dallas must meet the following requirements:

GPA of 2.750 overall or on the last 60 semester credit hours of coursework.
All students must have completed 12-15 semester credit hours in major/teaching field with no grade lower than a "C."
Post-Baccalaureate students must have an undergraduate or graduate degree from an accredited university. If a student holds a degree from an accredited college or university, and has never enrolled in an Educator Preparation Program (EPP), the student may qualify to register for a Pre-Admission Content Test (PACT). Detailed PACT information is available on the ETS website. Taking PACT does not ensure admittance into an Educator Preparation Program. Programs may have additional admission requirements. Post-Baccalaureate students must meet the requirements of the Texas Success Initiative (Texas Education code 51.3062), meet the GRE requirements below or otherwise be determined by the program.
GRE: A minimum Verbal score of 450 and a minimum Quantitative score of 450 for a combined Verbal/Quantitative minimum score of 900 and a writing score of 3 or higher. Revised 2012 GRE Scoring: Minimum Verbal score of 135 and a minimum Quantitative score of 135 for a combined Verbal/Quantitative minimum score of 270 and a writing score of 3 or higher. (GRE scores can be no more than five years old.)
TSI - Exempt or Complete or as otherwise determined by the program.

Undergraduate students enrolling in the TDC program should meet with a faculty advisor in their academic major to develop a degree plan no later than the end of the second regular semester following the semester in which the student earned 45 or more semester credit hours, per the Texas Education Code, Section 51.9685, indicating to the advisor their interest in pursuing teacher certification. Students can then make an appointment for certification plan advising with the TDC whenever they are ready to take upper-division courses.
Undergraduate students enrolling in UTeach Dallas or all students (including freshmen) interested in exploring or pursuing secondary mathematics, computer science, or science teaching as a career are encouraged to enroll in UTeach Dallas certification coursework as early as their first semester at UT Dallas due to early field and teaching experiences as well as compacting degree plans with certification preparation. Students should make an appointment for certification plan advising with the UTeach Dallas advisor, who also serves as the academic advisor for all NS&M majors enrolled in UTeach Dallas.
Post-Baccalaureate students interested in teacher certification at UT Dallas are advised in the TDC or UTeach Dallas.
Official Admission
Teacher Development Center Program:

GPA of 2.75 overall or in the last 60 semester credit hours of coursework
Completed 12-15 semester credit hours in major/teaching field with no grade lower than a "C."
TSI: Exempt or Complete
Social Security Number - A Social Security number is required for Teacher Certification to complete the fingerprinting
Students must complete an application for admission to the Teacher Development Program.
A committee of faculty, administrators, and field experience supervisors will review all applications for admittance to the UT Dallas Teacher Certification Program.
Students are required to adhere to the Code of Ethics and Stand Practices for Texas Educators and Fitness to Teach Policy.
Students are notified by email when they have been officially admitted to the Teacher Certification Preparation Program. Students must reply to the email within 7 days to accept their admittance to the program
TEAL (TEA login) ECOS (Educator Certification Online System and ETS (Educational Testing Service) accounts must be established.

UTeach Dallas Program:

Meet all requirements for "Provisional Admission."
Complete an application for admission to the UTeach Dallas Program.
Complete UTeach STEP 1 (NATS 1141 or NATS 1142), UTeach STEP 2 (NATS 1143), and Knowing and Learning in Mathematics and Science (NATS 3341); be at least currently enrolled in Classroom Interactions (NATS 3343); and have a 2.750 or higher GPA in University coursework.
Have completed Step 2 Final Project as an entrance essay requirement.

Students must adhere to the Code of Ethics and Standard Practices for Texas Educators of the Texas Administrative Code, Chapter 247, Rule 247.2, and to the Fitness to Teach policy (to be provided at the first advising appointment in the TDC).
Texas Examinations of Educator Standards (TExES)
All candidates for initial teacher certification must pass two TExES certification examinations.
Students must be officially admitted to either teacher certification track (TDC or UTeach Dallas) to take the TExES certification examinations. For information on TExES registration and eligibility, please review the TDC website or contact the TDC or review the UTeach Dallas website or contact UTeach Dallas.
TExES examination preparation manuals and Tests-at-a-Glance may be downloaded from the ETS website. Students should access this information before or during the first semester of enrollment in the TDC or the UTeach Dallas teacher certification tracks. Students are encouraged to prepare early for the content area/teaching field TExES examination as well as take the PPR TExES exam.

TDC students are prepared to take the PPR exam during or upon completion of Classroom Management (ED 3342 or ED 4361).
UTeach Dallas students are prepared to take the PPR exam at the beginning of Project-Based Instruction (NATS 4341).
Practice exams for all TExES examinations are available through the TDC at no charge.
TExES preparation workshops are available twice each fall and spring semester at no charge to students.

Requirements for Clinical Teaching
Applications for clinical teaching will be accepted at one of several information sessions held early in each long semester (before October 15 in the fall and before March 15 in the spring). For further information, contact the TDC or UTeach Dallas. All candidates in either teacher certification track will be reviewed by the appropriate program professionals to analyze eligibility for clinical teaching.
Teacher Development Center Program:
All candidates must have exhibited professional maturity, acceptable class attendance, and meet the following requirements:

Adhere to the Code of Ethics and Standard Practices for Texas Educators.
Adhere to Fitness to Teach Policy.
Be officially admitted to the TDC program. Transfer students must have completed a minimum of 9 semester credit hours of professional development coursework at UT Dallas in order to register for the clinical teaching capstone course.
Pass both required TExES exams.
Complete all required professional development courses with a 2.750 or higher GPA.
Complete field experience hours and submit Reflection paper.
Have no grade lower than a "B" in Classroom Management (e.g., ED 3342 or ED 4361), Curriculum and Instruction (i.e. ED 3370, ED 3371, ED 3380, or ED 3382) or Methods (e.g. ED 4343, ED 4344, or ED 4345) courses.
Have no grade lower than "C" in other required certification courses.
Request a clinical teaching assignment where no family member works or attends.
Clear district criminal background check.
Register for clinical teaching (6 semester credit hours). A clinical teaching fee is included in the total registration charges.
Pay tuition expenses before beginning the official clinical teaching assignment.
Earn a grade of "A" or "B" in Clinical Teaching or Supervised Post-Baccalaureate Internship.

Supervised Post-Baccalaureate Internships are available only to certification candidates who have a degree from an accredited college or university, a signed full-time teacher contract as faculty of record from an accredited school or district, a 3.000 or higher GPA in required courses, and who meet all other requirements for clinical teaching.
UTeach Dallas Program:
All candidates must have exhibited professional maturity, acceptable class attendance, and meet the following requirements:

Adhere to the Code of Ethics and Standard Practices for Texas Educators as listed in Appendix III in the student teacher handbook.
Meet all requirements for official admission to the UTeach Dallas program.
Pass both required TExES exams.
Have an overall 2.750 or higher GPA.
Have no grade lower than "C-" in all required certification courses as well as a 3.000 or higher GPA in UTeach Dallas coursework.
Request a clinical teaching assignment where no family member works or attends.
Clear district criminal background check.
Register for clinical teaching (6 semester credit hours). A clinical teaching fee will be included in the total registration charges.
Enroll concurrently in the NATS 4141 UTeach Apprentice Teaching Seminar course (1 semester credit hour).
Pay tuition expenses before beginning the official clinical teaching assignment.

UT Dallas Requirements for Teacher Certification
Teacher Development Center:

A 2.750 or higher GPA in all professional education coursework.
A 2.750 or higher GPA in content area/teaching field coursework.
Earn a grade of "A" or "B" in:

Classroom Management (ED 3342 or ED 4361);
Curriculum and Instruction (ED 3370, ED 3371, ED 3380, or ED 3382);
Methods courses (ED 4343, ED 4344, or ED 4345).ย

Earn no grade lower than "C" in all other required certification courses.
Successfully complete professional education coursework taken at UT Dallas.
Successfully complete Educational Technology (ED 4372).
Provide appropriate documentation of effective public speaking.
Complete 12 semester credit hours of English language, composition, and/or literature with no grade lower than a "C."
Successfully complete a minimum of 30 clock hours of early field experience.
Successfully complete a semester clinical teaching experience with a grade of "A" or "B" in clinical teaching.

UTeach Dallas:

A 2.7500 or higher overall GPA.
Earn no grade lower than "C-" in all required certification courses as well as a 3.000 or higher GPA in UTeach Dallas coursework.
Successfully complete professional education coursework taken at UT Dallas.
Provide appropriate documentation of educational technology competency.
Provide appropriate documentation of effective public speaking.
Successfully complete a minimum of 30 clock hours of early field experience.
Successfully complete a semester clinical teaching experience with a grade of "A" or "B" in clinical teaching.

Application for Certification
Students who successfully fulfill all requirements for Texas teacher certification (GPA, coursework, TSI Exemption, and TExES examinations, etc.) may apply for certification on the Texas Education Agency (TEA) website. The Certification Officer will access student online applications and, upon verification of all certification requirements, will make recommendations for certification online. Students will immediately receive an email from the certifying agency verifying the recommendation. When TEA posts the certificate online, the teacher candidate can print a copy of the certificate on paper suitable for framing if they wish. The online certificate is the official credential.
A social security number (SSN) is now required to complete fingerprinting. Please visit the Social Security Administration for information regarding SSNs. The TEA will issue a temporary number for educators that do not have an SSN. The temporary number allows an educator to create a TEA Login (TEAL) account and access the Educator Certification Online System (ECOS)."
Contact Information
UT Dallas Teacher Development Center
School of Interdisciplinary Studies  Hoblitzelle Hall 2.900  Telephone: 972-883-2730  Fax: 972-883-4330  teach.utdallas.edu
UTeach Dallas
Department of Science/Mathematics Education  School of Natural Sciences and Mathematics  Founders North 3.218  Telephone: 972-883-6485  Fax: 972-883-6796  uteach.utdallas.edu
Updated: 2021-10-13 09:27:42 v13.2397b4




