


Refund of Tuition and Fees - Tuition and Financial Aid (Print Version)









UT Dallas 2021 Graduate Catalog
Tuition and Financial Aid
Refund of Tuition and Fees
It is the student's responsibility to know and understand the state mandated refund policy. Upon notification from the Office of the Registrar of official withdrawal, the Bursar Office shall reimburse the applicable portion of tuition and fees (unless otherwise noted) in accordance with the following schedule:
If the student withdraws during a fall or spring semester or a summer term of 10 weeks or longer:

Prior to the first class day of a given semester, 100 percent reimbursement
During the first five class days, 80 percent of the applicable portion of the tuition and applicable fees reimbursement
During the second five class days, 70 percent reimbursement
During the third five class days, 50 percent reimbursement
During the fourth five class days, 25 percent reimbursement
After the fourth five class days, no reimbursement

If the student withdraws during a term or session of more than five weeks but less than 10 weeks (five- and eight-week summer sessions):

Prior to the first class day of a given term, 100 percent reimbursement
During the first, second, and third class day, 80 percent reimbursement
During the fourth, fifth, and sixth class day, 50 percent reimbursement
Seventh class day and thereafter, no reimbursement

Separate withdrawal refund schedules may be established for other fees and charges. Refer to the Other User Fees for Courses and Services section for refund information.
Cash refunds will not be made to students. Refund checks will be mailed to the student's address listed on their Student Center's account in Galaxy (Orion Self Service) 7 to 10 business days after the refund is requested unless the student has opted for direct deposit through EZPAY. Direct deposit refunds are normally available 3 to 4 business days from the date they were requested.
All policies regarding the payment or refunding of tuition, fees, and charges are approved by the Board of Regents of The University of Texas System and are in compliance with the Texas Education Code, Section 54.006 of the Texas Statutes. If a person desires clarification of any matter relating to payment or refund of such charges, he or she should contact the office or administrative unit from which the charge or refund originated.
Refunding Students in Title IV Programs
As an institution participating in programs under Title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965 as amended ("Act"), The University of Texas at Dallas is required to recalculate eligibility for federal financial aid when a student fails all of the classes in a term, withdraws from all of the classes in a term or does not begin attending a class.  In situations where aid must be reduced the funds are returned to the program from where they came.
Updated: 2021-03-16 14:38:20 v3.8a4610




