



Statistics - UT Dallas 2013 Undergraduate Catalog - The University of Texas at Dallas































Jump to content
Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Catalog Home 
Undergraduate Catalogs 


2022 Undergraduate Catalog2021 Undergraduate Catalog2020 Undergraduate Catalog2019 Undergraduate Catalog2018 Undergraduate Catalog2017 Undergraduate Catalog2016 Undergraduate Catalog


 
Graduate Catalogs 


2022 Graduate Catalog2021 Graduate Catalog2020 Graduate Catalog2019 Graduate Catalog2018 Graduate Catalog2017 Graduate Catalog2016 Graduate Catalog









UT Dallas 2013 Undergraduate CatalogStatisticsSTAT 1342 (MATH 1342) Statistical Decision Making (3 semester hours) Principles of quantitative decision making: summarizing data, modeling uncertainty, loss functions, probability, conditional probability, random variables. Introduction to statistics: estimation, confidence intervals, hypothesis testing, regression. Introduction to statistical packages. Cannot be used to satisfy degree requirements for majors in the School of Engineering and Computer Science, or major requirements in the Schools of Management or Natural Sciences and Mathematics. Prerequisite: MATH 1306 or MATH 1314 or equivalent. (3-0) SSTAT 3103 Statistical Computer Packages (1 semester hour) An introduction to the use of statistics packages, such as SAS, BMD, SPSS, Minitab, and S, for the analysis of data. Based primarily on self-study materials. Cannot be used to satisfy degree requirements for mathematics majors. Prerequisite: one semester of statistics. (1-0) SSTAT 3332 Statistics for Life Sciences (3 semester hours) Graphs, histograms, mean, median, standard deviation, Chebyshev's inequality, standardized scores, simple linear regression and correlation; basic rules of probability, Bayes theorem; Normal t, chi squared, F, binomial and Poisson distributions; point estimation; hypothesis tests and confidence intervals for means, proportions regression coefficients, and correlation; one way ANOVA; contingency tables. Applications in life sciences will be emphasized throughout the course. Cannot be used by mathematics, engineering, or computer science majors to satisfy degree requirements. Prerequisite: MATH 2312 or MATH 1325 or equivalent. (3-0) SSTAT 3341 Probability and Statistics in Computer Science and Software Engineering (3 semester hours) Axiomatic probability theory, independence, conditional probability. Discrete and continuous random variables, special distributions of importance to CS/SE, and expectation. Simulation of random variables and Monte Carlo methods. Central limit theorem. Basic statistical inference, parameter estimation, hypothesis testing, and linear regression. Introduction to stochastic processes. Illustrative examples and simulation exercises from queuing, reliability, and other CS/SE applications. Students cannot get credit for both (CS 3341 or SE 3341 or STAT 3341) and ENGR 3341. Prerequisites: (MATH 1326 or MATH 2414 or MATH 2419), and (CE 2305 or CS 2305 or TE 2305). (Same as CS 3341 and SE 3341) (3-0) SSTAT 3355 Data Analysis for Statisticians and Actuaries (3 semester hours) Methods of data analysis used in different areas of Statistics and Actuarial Science. Sampling, fitting and testing models, regression, and comparison of populations. A statistical computer package will be used. Prerequisite: MATH 2415 or MATH 2419. (3-0) YSTAT 3360 Probability and Statistics for Management and Economics (3 semester hours) Probability theory including independence, conditioning, density functions, frequently used families of distributions, random variables, expectation, moments, and the central limit theorem; statistical inference including sampling, estimation, hypothesis testing, and regression. Cannot be used by mathematics, engineering, or computer science majors to satisfy degree requirements. Prerequisite: MATH 1326. (3-0) SSTAT 4351 Probability (3 semester hours) Sample spaces, probability of events, Kolmogorov's axioms, independence and dependence, Bayesian methodology. Discrete and continuous random variables. Probability distributions, mass functions and densities of univariate and multivariate random variables. Expected values, variances, moment generating functions, covariances and related issues. Probability inequalities. Special probability distributions and special probability densities. Functions of random variables, distribution function techniques, transformation techniques for one and several variables, moment-generating techniques. The law of large numbers, the central limit theorem and classical sampling distributions. Proofs of all main results. Practical examples illustrating the theory. The course can be used as a preparation for the first (Probability) actuarial exam. Prerequisite: MATH 2451. (3-0) YSTAT 4352 Mathematical Statistics (3 semester hours) Sampling distributions. Order statistics. Decision theory including minimax and Bayes criterion. Point estimation including unbiased estimators, efficiency, consistency, sufficiency, robustness, the method of moments, the method of maximum likelihood, Bayesian estimation. Interval estimation including the estimation of means, differences of means, proportions, differences between proportions, variances and ratios of variances. Hypothesis testing including Neyman-Pearson lemma, power function and likelihood ratio test. Special tests involving means, variances and proportions. Nonparametric tests. Foundations of regression, correlation, design and analysis of experiments. Proofs of all main results. Practical examples illustrating the theory. The course can be used as a preparation for the statistical part of the fourth actuarial exam. Prerequisite: STAT 4351 or equivalent. (3-0) YSTAT 4382 Stochastic Processes (3 semester hours) Stochastic models including Markov chains, random walks, Poisson processes, renewal processes, and an introduction to time series and forecasting. Prerequisite: STAT 4351 or equivalent. (3-0) YSTAT 4v02 Independent Study in Statistics (1-6 semester hours) Independent study under a faculty member's direction. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 hours maximum). Prerequisite: Student must obtain approval from participating mathematics faculty member and the undergraduate advisor. Can satisfy Communication elective (3 hours) if it has a major writing/report component. ([1-6]-0) SSTAT 4v97 Undergraduate Topics in Statistics (1-9 semester hours) Subject matter will vary from semester to semester. May be repeated for credit as topics vary (9 hours maximum). ([1-9]-0) Sbugz












2013 Undergraduate Catalog

General Information

About the 2013 Catalog
About UT Dallas
University Officers
UT System Regents
Contact Information
Faculty Roster
Search 2013 Undergraduate Catalog

Undergraduate Programs

Arts and Humanities

Art and Performance
ATEC
EMAC
Historical Studies
Literary Studies

Behavioral and Brain Sciences

Child Learning and Development
Cognitive Science
Neuroscience
Psychology
Speech-Language Pathology and Audiology

Economic, Political and Policy Sciences

Criminology
Criminology and Biology
Economics
Economics and Finance
Geospatial Information Sciences
International Political Economy
Political Science
Public Affairs
Sociology

Engineering and Computer Science

Biomedical Engineering
Computer Engineering
Computer Science
Electrical Engineering
Mechanical Engineering
Software Engineering
Telecommunications Engineering

Interdisciplinary Studies

American Studies
Healthcare Studies
Interdisciplinary Studies

Jindal School of Management

Accounting
Business Administration
Business Administration and Biology
Business Administration and Molecular Biology
Finance
Finance and Economics
Global Business
Management Information Systems
Marketing
Supply Chain Management

Natural Science and Mathematics

Actuarial Science
Biochemistry
Biology
Biology and Business Administration
Biology and Criminology
Chemistry
Geosciences
Mathematics
Molecular Biology
Molecular Biology and Business Administration
Physics
Biomedical Sciences (Cert)

Teacher Certification

Undergraduate Courses

Undergraduate Courses by Subject
Undergraduate Courses by School
Undergraduate Interdisciplinary Courses
Undergraduate Developmental Courses

Undergraduate Admission

About Admission
Application Fees and Deadlines
Freshman Admission
International Student Admission
Readmission
Special Admissions
Transfer Student Admissions

Undergraduate Curriculum

About Curriculum
Core Curriculum
Honors Programs
Other Degree Requirements

Tuition and Financial Aid

About Tuition and Financial Aid
Excessive Undergraduate Hours
Refund of Tuition and Fees
Other User Fees
Financial Aid
Types of Financial Aid

Policies and Procedures

List of Undergraduate Policies

Academic
Admission
Change of Address
Correspondence - Email
Courses
Degree Plans
Disciplinary Actions
FERPA
Graduate Courses
Graduation
International Education
Military Service
Registration
Religious Holy Days
Student Travel


University Resources

List of Resources

General Resources
Health Resources
Professional Resources
Student Complaint Resources


Catalog Appendices

Appendix I - Rules, Regulations, and Statutory Requirements
Appendix II - Transfer of Lower-Division Course Credit







The University of Texas at DallasUT Dallas ProvostCourseBookContact the Provost's Technology Group






(null clip target)













